## Animal Spells

Animal spells affect all natural living things that are not plants or humans, doing to animals what Mentem and Corpus spells do to people. Animal spells may affect any animal-like mind or body. They also affect things made with animal products, such as leather, bone, or wool.

To tell if an Animal spell will affect the mind of a creature, determine from the animal's Characteristics if it has Cunning or Intelligence. If the creature has Intelligence, a Mentem spell must be used. If it has Cunning, an Animal spell must be used. When a creature or person who has an Intelligence Characteristic is shapechanged, Animal spells that affect the mind are not effective. Instead, Mentem spells are needed. However, the body of such a being may be affected by Animal spells, including spells like *The Falcon's Hood* (PeAn 20).

If a human body has animal parts (such as bat wings), those parts can be affected by Animal spells, even though the rest of the body is only affected by Corpus spells.

A Bjornaer magus in animal form is truly an animal, so his mind is affected by Animal spells rather than Mentem spells, and his body by Animal spells rather than Corpus spells. However, spells with continuing effects cast on one form continue to affect the other. Most shapechangers do not change their essential nature, which remains human, so their bodies can still be affected by Corpus spells, as well as by Animal.

A basic Individual for Animal is an animal of about the same size as a pony, Size +1 or lower.

### Creo Animal Guidelines

Most Animal spells cannot be used with Personal range, so the level of a spell must be higher than the guidelines given.

To create treated animal products (like leather, jointed meat, and cloth) add one magnitude to the level necessary to create the equivalent amount of dead animal. To create treated and processed animal products, such as a leather jacket or a woolen tunic, add two magnitudes to the level necessary to create the equivalent amount of dead animal.

In order to influence the behavior of created animals, a Rego requisite is required, and as this is an additional effect it adds at least one magnitude to the spell level. Otherwise they just do what comes naturally.

Creo Animal botches often produce the wrong sort of animal, or produce an animal enraged with the caster.

| Level | Creo Animal Guideline  |
| ----- | ---------------------- |
| 1  | • Give an animal a +1 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 2  | • Give an animal a +3 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Preserve a corpse from decay |
| 3  | • Give an animal a +6 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 4  | • Give an animal a +9 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 5  | • Create an animal product, such as spidersilk or wool (Note that an Individual is a single hair, a single hide, or a single tusk)<br>• Create an insect or similar bug<br>• Give an animal a +12 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 10 | • Create the corpse of an animal<br>• Create a bird, reptile, fish, or amphibian<br>• Give an animal a +15 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 15 | • Heal a Light Wound<br>• Give an animal a +18 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Create a mammal<br>• Cause an animal to reach full maturity over a single day or night (requires Sun Duration spell; maturation only applies during spell's Duration) |
| 20 | • Heal a Medium Wound<br>• Give an animal a +21 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Cause an animal to reach full maturity over about two hours |
| 25 | • Stop the progress of a disease<br>• Heal a Heavy Wound<br>• Restore a lost sense<br>• Restore a lost limb<br>• Cure a disease, counteracting its effects (unless Momentary Ritual, same as stopping progress)<br>• Cause an animal to reach full maturity over ten Diameters (twenty minutes) |
| 30 | • Heal an Incapacitating Wound<br>• Increase one of an animal's Characteristics by one point, to no more than the average score for that kind of animal<br>• Cause an animal to reach full maturity over the course of a single Diameter |
| 35 | • Heal all wounds<br>• Increase one of an animal's Characteristics by one point, to no more than one higher than the average score for that kind of animal |
| 40 | • Increase one of an animal's Characteristics by one point, to no more than two higher than the average score for that kind of animal<br>• Cause an animal to reach full maturity in a moment |
| 45 | • Increase one of an animal's Characteristics by one point, to no more than three higher than the average score for that kind of animal |
| 50 | • Create a magical beast. When creating a magical creature, the Magic Might of the creature cannot exceed the level of the spell, and requisites must be included for any special powers (for example, Ignem if it can breathe fire, Rego and Mentem if it can control people's minds). A Vim requisite, for the magical nature, is always required.<br>• Increase one of an animal's Characteristics by one point, to no more than four higher than the average score for that kind of animal |
| 55 | • Increase one of an animal's Characteristics by one point, to no more than five higher than the average score for that kind of animal. A greater increase is not within the natural range for the animal, and thus cannot be effected by Creo magic. |
| 75 | • Raise an animal from the dead |

### Creo Animal Spells

#### LEVEL 20

##### Soothe Pains of the Beast
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
This spell looks much like a ritualistic "laying on of hands" seen in many churches. You kneel and press your hands to the wound while reciting a quiet incantation. The spell cures one Light Wound suffered by the animal.
Asaron of Flambeau believes his mission in life is to repopulate the world so there will be more to kill, and thus spends seasons healing animals and people throughout Europe. In his version of this spell, a black patch in the shape of a tongue of fire is left where the wound was. A symbolic flame is seen in almost all of Asaron's spells, making it his wizard's sigil.<br>
(Base level 15, +1 Touch)

##### True Rest of the Injured Brute
R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
The injured target gets a +9 bonus to all Recovery rolls made while the spell is in effect.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Weaver's Trap of Webs
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group<br>
In casting this spell, you point and from the indicated initial location, a huge net of spider webs grows, filling an area 5 paces by 5 paces by 6 feet high. With supports, the webs can hang vertically, forming a wall, otherwise they act like a net. When the webs are through growing after a few seconds, they are as thick as string and as strong as iron. Everyone caught in the area of the webs is immobilized. Getting free requires a Strength stress roll of 12+, or someone who is not trapped may use an edged weapon to free a victim, which takes three rounds. Contrary to widespread rumor, fire is ineffective against these webs. Webs may continue to trap victims in the future, as long as the spell lasts and they aren't completely hacked apart.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group (total mass of the spiderwebs is still less than ten basic Individuals, so no size adjustment))

##### The Wizard's Mount
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Creates a horse, which is normal in every way except that it is not disturbed by The Gift.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 size)

#### LEVEL 50

##### Curse of the Ravenous Swarm
R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Group, Ritual<br> 
Req: Rego<br>
Calls a swarm of locusts or other destructive insects upon an area, which destroys wild plant life and fields. When the spell's duration ends, all the insects disappear, leaving nothing but the damage. The Rego requisite ensures that the insects only devastate the area desired by the caster.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +2 Group, +2 size, for a swarm weighing as much as one thousand pigs, +1 extra effect from requisite, ritual because it has a really major effect)

### Intellego Animal Guidelines

When you try to get information from an animal, remember that its memories are gathered through its particular senses, with their particular strengths and weaknesses. For example, dogs remember much about odors of various things, but often forget details of how they looked. Animals do not remember human words, but might remember tone of voice and such. You may not get the exact information you are looking for.

To communicate with an animal, you must bring yourself to the animal's mental level — a process that might have strange, though temporary, effects on you. For example, you might have a craving for raw meat or speak very slowly for a moment after communicating with a bear.

Since Animal includes aspects of both Corpus and Mentem with regard to beasts, guidelines that apply to the latter two may apply to Animal. InCo and InMe may be referred to for additional ideas.

Botches with InAn normally result in false information.

| Level | Intellego Animal Guideline |
| ----- | -------------------------- |
| 1  | • Get a mental image of an animal |
| 3  | • Sense the state of consciousness of a beast<br>• Get general information about an animal's body |
| 4  | • Sense the dominant drive of a beast<br>• Learn a specific fact about an animal's body |
| 5  | • Learn the origin, age, and history of something made of animal products |
| 10 | • Speak with an animal<br>• Read an animal's surface thoughts |
| 15 | • Read the recent memories of a beast |
| 20 | • Thoroughly probe the mind of a beast |

### Intellego Animal Spells

#### LEVEL 5

##### Image of the Beast
R: Arc D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Gives you a hazy mental image of an animal you have an Arcane Connection to. Wounds caused by an animal are an Arcane Connection to that animal with a lifetime of a few hours. This spell can thus be used to find out what was responsible for an attack. All spells cast by Chavin of Tytalus can be recognized because they promote or advocate war or violence. In his version of this spell, the claws and teeth of the beast appear more dangerous.<br> 
(Base 1, +4 Arcane Connection)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Shiver of the Lycanthrope
R: Per, D: Conc, T: Touch<br>
You feel a sudden shiver if you are touching a person or beast that is actually a lycanthrope. Variants of this spell detect other types of shapechanger, but not Bjornaer with Heartbeasts.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Concentration, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Opening the Tome of the Animal's Mind
R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
You touch the head of the animal in question and read its memories of the past day. The further the animal is from human, the harder it is to read its memories accurately. If you simply scan the beast's memories, not looking for anything special, you get the memories the beast thinks are most important. If you are trying to get a specific fact, you need a Perception + Finesse stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6, or 12 if the fact is obscure. Since normal animals are sensitive to magic, they resist your touch and try to shy away from you both when the spell is cast and while the spell continues to function. This can be quite a problem with larger animals.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Hunter's Sense
R: Per, D: Sun, T: Hearing<br>
You sense the shapes and primary motivations of all animals above a certain size that you can hear, or could hear if they were making a noise. You decide the size threshold when you cast the spell, such as "all animals larger than a fox." The 'noise' of an animal's shape is louder the larger it is, while the 'noise' of its motivations increases depending on how intense the motivation is. A rabbit fleeing from a fox would sound fearful, very loudly. The fox's motivation might be fairly quiet, especially if recent hunting had been good.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Sun, +3 Hearing, +1 for shape and primary motivation)

### Muto Animal Guidelines

Animals granted new abilities, such as wings, will need a few minutes to get used to them. When transforming things, you can transform things that they are carrying with appropriate requisites. For example, you could transform a horse and its armor with a Terram requisite.

Animals are not infinitely mutable, and using too many of these spells for too long on an animal can warp its natural constitution and even destroy it. Muto Corpus spells may be examined to get additional ideas and guidelines for Muto Animal Spells. Common sigils seen in Muto Animal spells involve animals being changed in some strange way. Beasts transformed by Julian of Flambeau, with *The Beast Remade* (MuAn 25), might have bright red hair in their new form, while toads created by Silva of Merinita, with *Transformation of the Ravenous Beast to the Torpid Toad* (MuAn 30), might have a comical coloration.

MuAn botches often change the caster instead of the target, or change the target in a way very different from that intended.

| Level | Muto Animal Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| 1 | • Make a superficial change to something made of animal products (like changing its color) |
| 2 | • Make a major change to something made of animal products that preserves the substance (for example, turn a leather jerkin into a saddle)<br>• Make a superficial change to a beast |
| 3 | • Change an animal's limb<br>• Change something made of animal products into a different animal product |
| 4 | • Make a major change in a beast, while leaving it recognizably the same sort of animal (for example, make a horse bigger and change its color)<br>• Change something made of animal products in a minor unnatural way |
| 5 | • Change an animal into a different animal<br>• Change an animal in a minor way so that it is no longer natural (for example, change the color of a horse's coat to match the covenant's coat of arms)<br>• Change something made of animal products in a major unnatural way |
| 10 | • Change an animal into a human (though it retains its animal mentality and does not gain a soul; requires a Corpus requisite)<br>• Change an animal into a plant (requires a Herbam requisite) |
| 15 | • Change an animal in a major unnatural way (for example, give a horse claws, fangs, and scaly armored skin)<br>• Change an animal into a non-living item (appropriate requisite required) |
| 25 | • Radically change an animal in an unnatural way (for example, give a horse wings); give an animal a 'magical' ability, such as the ability to breathe fire (requires a requisite for the ability) |

### Muto Animal Spells

#### LEVEL 15

##### Beast of Outlandish Size
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Changes the Size of an animal by +1. This change modifies Strength by +2, the range for each wound level increases by one, and Quickness falls by one. The new beast is of huge size, and looks much more impressive than its former self. Townspeople may run in fear of it, and there is little doubt among them that it is a creature of magic.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

##### Doublet of Impenetrable Silk
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind.<br>
Change an item made of animal material — silk, wool, or leather — so it cannot be cut or penetrated by weapons. A simple cloth doublet becomes the equivalent of armor with no Load and a +3 Soak bonus. Armor made of guilted material or any kind of leather improves its Protection by an additional +3. The magic does not make the armor better at absorbing shock, so this +3 bonus is the limit that can be bestowed without changing the material into something completely different. At the storyguide's option, the bonus given by this spell may not apply against strictly blunt weapons like clubs and staves.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

##### Growth of the Creeping Things
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind.<br>
Causes an insect, mouse, toad, or other small (Size -8 or smaller) creature to grow to four times its normal size. If it was venomous before, it is even more venomous now. Semi-venomous creatures, like most spiders, have poison with an Ease Factor of 6 that does a Light Wound.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Beast of Minuscule Proportions
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Reduces the size of an animal by 2. This modifies Strength by -4, reduces the range for each wound type by two points, and increases Quickness by +2. The beast appears to be the runt of its litter.<br>
(Base: 4, +2 Voice, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 25

##### The Beast Remade
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Corpus<br>
Gives one land beast a human form, though its intellect remains the same. Some feature of the animal is retained in the human form. A former dog might have an exceptionally hairy human body, and a former cat might let loose an occasional "meow." Once transformed, the beast is disoriented for a while before it becomes used to its new body.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, no addition for requisite)

##### Transformation of the Ravenous Beast to the Torpid Toad
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Turns any animal into a toad. A newly created toad will hold a certain terror for peasants and serfs, because many believe toads exude a poisonous substance from their skin.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Steed of Vengeance
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind.<br>
Turns a horse into a ferocious magical mount. Its coat becomes a deep black and its eves a fiery red, its teeth transform into fangs, its hooves become razor-sharp, and it occasionally breathes steam from its mouth — the horse seems a creature from Hell itself. All its Attack rolls get a +5 bonus. The horse tolerates a magus rider. When the spell wears off, the horse must make a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or die from shock.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 size)

### Perdo Animal Guidelines

There is normally no Soak against Perdo Animal — the magic does not create something that causes damage, it just causes damage. Magic Resistance is the only way to withstand it.

A common sigil among Flambeau magi, and others who cast Perdo spells, is to leave some type of mark with the damage they do.

When inventing new spells, you may wish to consult Perdo Corpus for guidelines and ideas.

PeAn botches might affect the caster, or affect the wrong animal.

| Level | Perdo Animal Guideline |
| ----- | ---------------------- |
| 2 | • Damage something made of animal products |
| 3 | • Do superficial damage to a beast (for example, remove its hair) |
| 4 | • Destroy something made of animal products<br>• Cause a beast pain, but do no real damage<br>• Make a beast lose one Fatigue level |
| 5 | • Injure an animal so that it is hampered, but not damaged (for example, make a horse lame, a bird lose its voice, or weaken the scales of a serpent; this roughly halves the effectiveness of the targeted thing; recovery as from a Light Wound)<br>• Destroy an animal's corpse<br>• Inflict a Light Wound |
| 10 | • Inflict a Medium Wound |
| 15 | • Destroy one of a beast's minor senses<br>• Inflict a Heavy Wound<br>• Cripple a beast's limb, so that it is unusable but could heal<br>• Age a beast by one-twelfth of its natural lifespan (only affects beasts that have already reached maturity) |
| 20 | • Inflict an Incapacitating Wound<br>• Destroy or sever a beast's limb, so that it cannot naturally regain it<br>• Destroy one of a beast's major senses |
| 30 | • Kill an animal |
| 40 | • Destroy one property of an animal, such as its weight or aggression |



### Perdo Animal Spells

#### LEVEL 10

##### Decay Fur and Hide
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Destroys an object made of animal fur or hide, including wool and leather. Marius of Tremere's version of this spell has the target disappear in an impressive puff of smoke.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Agony of the Beast
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
After you point at the beast and cast this spell, it begins lashing wildly about, upsetting any nearby objects, and howling in great pain. In order to do anything else, the beast must make a Stamina + Size stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 each round.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Blunt the Viper's Fangs 
R: Voice, D: Momentary, T: Individual<br>
Blunt the claws, teeth, talons, or other natural weapons of a beast. Only sharp weapons may be affected: this spell does not affect a weapon such as a horse's hoof or a giant snake's coils. The blunted weapon has its total damage (including Attack Advantage) reduced to half (round up). The beast may recover from the effect as if it were a Light Wound. The spell may affect animals of size up to +4.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 size)

#### LEVEL 25

##### The Falcon's Hood
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Destroys an animal's vision. The blindness heals as if it is a Medium Wound. The title refers to the hood used to cover a falcon's eyes when it is not hunting. When cast by Asaron of Flambeau, this spell causes the animals it targets to bear a faint silhouette of a flame in their eves.<br>
(Base 20, +1 Touch)

##### Cripple the Howling Wolf
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
When casting this spell, you commonly make an abrupt snapping motion with your hands. One of the target's legs breaks cleanly. The animal cannot walk on that leg, but the damage heals as a Medium Wound. Note that the target need not be a wolf, and that you cannot choose which leg.<br>
(Base 15, +2 Voice)

### Rego Animal Guidelines

You may further refer to Corpus for ideas and guidelines on controlling an animal's body, and Rego Mentem spells for ideas and guidelines on controlling an animal's mind.

Sigils typical in Rego Animal spells are those that cause beasts to act in certain ways.

ReAn botches could put the caster under the control of the animal, or make the animal act in a way opposite to that intended. They could also appear to work, and then suddenly reverse at an extremely inconvenient moment.

| Level | Rego Animal Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| General | • Ward against beings associated with Animal from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell (Touch, Ring, Circle)<br>• Create a circle warding against animals from one realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell (Touch, Ring, Circle). Note that animals are not necessarily associated with Animal, or vice versa |
| 1 | • Manipulate items made from animal products |
| 2 | • Plant a single suggestion in the mind of an animal<br>• Protect the target from animal attacks (only affects animals without supernatural abilities)<br>• Treat items made of animal products |
| 3 | • Treat and process items made of animal products |
| 4 | • Calm an animal |
| 5 | • Manipulate an animal's emotions<br>• Paralyze an animal<br>• Ward against animals or objects made from animal products (Touch, Ring, Circle)<br>• Control a disembodied spirit associated with Animal<br>• Cause vermin to spontaneously generate in appropriate matter, such as flesh, plants, soil, or water |
| 10 | • Make an animal completely passive<br>• Transport an animal instantly up to 5 paces; non-living animal products are transported with Rego Terram (add 1 magnitude to increase distance to 50 paces, 2 magnitudes for 500 paces, 3 magnitudes for 1 league, 4 magnitudes for seven leagues, and 5 magnitudes to a place for which you have an Arcane Connection) |
| 15 | • Completely control an animal<br>• Summon a disembodied spirit associated with Animal |

### Rego Animal Spells

#### GENERAL

##### Ward against the Beasts of Legend
R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle<br>
No magical beast whose Magic Might is equal to or less than the level can affect anyone within the Circle or, if it is within the Circle, affect those outside. When a magus is making this and most other wards, a common gesture employed is the Fig Sign. The magus balls his or her right hand into a fist, placing the thumb between the index and middle fingers. A magus traveling to Italy should be warned that this sign is a deadly insult in that country.<br>
(As ward guideline)

#### LEVEL 5

##### Disguise of the Putrid Aroma
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
The target takes no interest in you as long as you continue to concentrate, and do not threaten it. A carnivore treats you as if you were simply something it does not eat. It retains normal interest, however, in anyone else nearby.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Concentration)

##### Circle of Beast Warding
R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle<br>
The caster inscribes a circle that no normal beast will cross.<br>
(Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Ring)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Soothe the Ferocious Bear
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Calms an animal until it is threatened or aroused again. You must speak soothingly or musically to it, and something as simple as approaching it may arouse it again.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Panic of the Elephant's Mouse
R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Makes an animal afraid of the target by preying upon its instinctive fears, causing it to attempt escape by the quickest, most feasible means possible. The animal may make a Size stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 to resist. (The title refers to the elephant's legendary fear of mice, but note that this spell cannot actually affect elephants, as they are too large.)<br>
(Base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Concentration)

##### Viper's Gaze
R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Holds an animal rigid as long as you maintain eye contact with it and concentrate on it.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Eye, +1 Concentration)

#### LEVEL 25

##### The Gentle Beast
R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Calms an animal, making it nearly fearless. It does not resist being ridden, shaved, or whatever else you can think of. If the animal enters combat, is extremely frightened, or incurs any kind of wound, the spell ends. The animal must be Size +4 or less.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Eye, +1 Concentration, +1 size)

##### Mastering the Unruly Beast
R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
You can make an animal perform any act it is capable of. You can only issue new commands while touching the animal, but the animal will carry them out without requiring constant contact. Further, the animal will allow you to touch it throughout the duration of the spell. It is difficult to maintain control of particularly stubborn or fierce animals, such as mules or boars — creatures with appropriate Personality Traits may roll against an Ease Factor of 12 each round. When Chavin of Tytalus casts this spell, the creature acts surly and unfriendly while going about its tasks, even when Chavin doesn't specifically tell it to act that way.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +1 Concentration)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Commanding the Harnessed Beast
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
You implant a complicated command into an animal, which it carries out to the best of its abilities. The command must involve completing a certain task, such as finding a certain person. Vague orders, like "protect me," do not work. If the animal does not complete the task before the end of the spell approaches, it becomes desperately ferocious, especially at night.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

---

