## Corpus Spells

Corpus spells deal with human or humanlike bodies and anything that involves those bodies. Many faeries have enough in common with humans to be affected by Corpus spells.

A base Individual for Corpus is an adult human being, up to Size +1.

### Creo Corpus Guidelines

Many Creo Corpus spells are most useful as Ritual spells. Unless otherwise noted, a healing spell cast other than as a Momentary Duration Ritual actually suspends the healing process so that, upon the spell's expiration, wounds are as fresh as they were when the spell was cast. No Hermetic spell can restore Fatigue levels.

A spell that can heal something can also heal less serious versions of the same thing. Thus, a spell that can heal Medium Wounds can also heal Light Wounds. However, a spell to heal wounds cannot cure diseases, no matter how high its level, and vice versa. Spells that give a bonus to Recovery rolls work no matter what the character is recovering from.

The physical characteristics are Strength, Stamina, Dexterity, and Quickness, and they can be affected and improved by Corpus magic.

Creo Corpus botches often inflict damage instead of healing it.

Creo Animal spells may be used as guidelines and examples for Creo Corpus spells.

| Level | Creo Corpus Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| 1 | • Give a character a +1 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• The target's wounds are treated as one category less serious for the purposes of activities while injured |
| 2 | • Give a character a +3 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Preserve a corpse from decay |
| 3 | • Give a character a +6 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Prevent all of a target's wounds from getting any worse |
| 4 | • Give a character a +9 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 5 | • Give a character a +12 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Create an entire human corpse |
| 10 | • Give a character a +15 bonus to Recovery rolls |
| 15 | • Heal a Light Wound<br>• Give a character a +18 bonus to Recovery rolls<br>• Resolve a minor aging crisis |
| 20 | • Heal a Medium Wound<br>• Heal the debilitating after-effects of a disease, poison, or injury<br>• Resolve a serious aging crisis |
| 25 | • Heal a Heavy Wound<br>• Improve all wounds by one level of severity<br>• Restore a lost limb<br>• Resolve a major aging crisis |
| 30 | • Heal an Incapacitating Wound<br>• Increase one of a person's physical Characteristics by one point, to no more than 0<br>• Cause a person to reach full physical maturity over the course of a single day or night (accelerated maturation only applies during the spell's Duration; people do not learn under the influence of this spell; full maturity is reached around age twenty)<br>• Resolve a critical aging crisis |
| 35 | • Heal all wounds<br>• Resolve a terminal aging crisis<br>• Increase one of a person's physical Characteristics by one point, to no more than +1 |
| 40 | • Increase one of a person's physical Characteristics by one point, to no more than +2 |
| 45 | • Increase one of a person's physical Characteristics by one point, to no more than +3 |
| 50 | • Increase one of a person's physical Characteristics by one point, to no more than +4 |
| 55 | • Increase one of a person's physical Characteristics by one point, to no more than +5 (further increases are not natural to human beings, and thus cannot be effected by Creo magic) |
| 70 | • Raise the dead, to a point (see The Shadow of Life Renewed) |

### Creo Corpus Spells

#### LEVEL 10

##### Bind Wound
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
This spell binds the target's wounds, so that he can undertake any activity without the risk of worsening the wounds. He still suffers from the wound penalties, however, and cannot heal naturally while under the influence of this spell. Typically, you place your hands on the target and pass them over his wounds, which magically seal themselves and stop bleeding.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

##### Charm against Putrefaction
R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
Prevents decay of a human corpse, or of a severed body part. Necromancers use it to preserve their revived corpses.<br>
(Base 2, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)

#### LEVEL 20

##### The Chirurgeon's Healing Touch
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
This spell heals a single Light Wound suffered by the person touched. This spell does not heal damage from poison or disease.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch)

##### Gentle Touch of the Purified Body
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
The target is cured of a Light Wound caused by poison or disease. This spell does not heal damage caused by injury.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch)

##### Purification of the Festering Wounds
R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
The target gains a +9 bonus to Recovery rolls, as long as he has been under the influence of this spell for the whole of the recovery interval. The recovery interval is counted from the time that the spell is cast, any previous time is ignored.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +3 Moon)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Restoration of the Defiled Body
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Removes the crippling or malignant after-effects of any injury, poison, or disease, or of premature aging. The effects of natural aging cannot be undone by this or any spell. This spell does not heal wounds, only extra effects.<br>
(Base 20, +1 Touch)

##### The Severed Limb Made Whole
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
A limb that has been detached from the body can be reattached, but any decay that has occurred on the severed limb remains after the limb is reattached. After a day of decomposition, a limb is weak. After seven days, it is nearly useless and infects the character on whom it is replaced (Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6 or take a Medium Wound). If it's been severed for more than two weeks, the limb is completely useless.<br>
(Base 25, +1 Touch, -1 because the old limb is needed)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Cheating the Reaper
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Resolves a major (or less severe) crisis caused by aging. The target still requires rest for the remainder of the season to recover fully. Note that each application of this spell causes Warping. See page 392 for details on crises.<br>
(Base 25, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Incantation of the Body Made Whole
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Heals all damage to a human body at the conclusion of the ritual. The spell can only heal wounds, not such damage as missing limbs, or diseases and damage from poisons.<br>
(Base 35, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 75

##### The Shadow of Life Renewed
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Req: Mentem<br>
Brings the semblance of life to a corpse. During the ritual, healing spells work on the corpse, which is important because the body must be physically whole or else it simply dies again once it is brought back to life. For each day that the person has been dead, roll for aging. When the ritual is complete, roll a simple die to determine the success of the attempt:

| Roll | Result |
| ---- | ------ |
| 1    | Body dissolves  |
| 2    | Body possessed by a demon, faerie, or other supernatural entity |
| 3    | Mindless, useless living corpse |
| 4–5  | Automaton with no Abilities over 3 |
| 6–7  | Automaton, but Abilities as a normal person's |
| 8    | Person with self direction but no personality, and somehow dangerously demented |
| 9–10 | Person with will, but no personality. The revived person is not truly alive and cannot gain experience points. Must make an aging roll at the beginning of each year of existence, regardless of age. This is the closest the Order has gotten to raising the dead. |

(Base 70, +1 Touch, no addition for requisite)

### Intellego Corpus Guidelines

Common sigils seen in Intellego Corpus spells usually report information in some strange or quirky way.

Like most Intellego botches, Intellego Corpus botches normally provide false information.

| Level | Intellego Corpus Guideline |
| ----- | -------------------------- |
| 3 | • Locate a person |
| 4 | • Sense very general information about a body |
| 5 | • Sense a specific piece of information about a body<br>• Speak with a dead body |
| 10 | • Sense all useful information about a body |

### Intellego Corpus Spells

#### GENERAL

##### Sight of the True Form
R: Per, D: Mom, T: Vision<br>
You see the true, original form of any person whose form has been changed or masked. This spell can see through mundane masks and disguises at level 10, and can see through the effects of other spells that are equal to or lower than the level of this spell.<br>
(Variable base)

#### LEVEL 5

##### Physician's Eye
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Determines the general health of a single person. Specific afflictions appear to you as areas of yellow coloration on the person's body. A Perception + Medicine stress roll is required to identify unusual diseases. The Ease Factor is determined by the rarity of the disease.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Revealed Flaws of Mortal Flesh
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
You are able to find any medical defects in a person or being that you are touching. This provides more, and more specific, information than Physician's Eye.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Whispers through the Black Gate
R: Touch, D: Conc. T: Ind<br>
Req: Mentem<br>
You can speak through the barrier — the figurative "gate" — that stands between the dead and the living, to one corpse that has not yet decayed into a skeleton. The corpse cannot have been buried in Church burial, nor have belonged to a spirit that went straight to Heaven (for example, a saint or a crusader). The spirit that you speak with is not compelled to tell the truth; you can, of course, find ways to coerce or trick it into doing so. All those around you can hear the voice of the corpse.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, no cost for requisite)

#### LEVEL 20

##### The Inexorable Search
R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Determines the location of a specific person. To cast the spell you need a map and an Arcane Connection. After casting the spell, you can move your finger over the map at the rate of one hour per square foot of map. When your finger passes over the person's location as represented on the map, you sense the person's presence. (If the person is not in the area covered by the map, no sensations result.) You can locate the person to within a thumb's width on the map. A similar spell allows you to search for a dead body (Tracing the Trail of Death's Stench).<br>
(Base 3, +4 Arc, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 30

##### The Eye of the Sage
R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Req: Imaginem<br>
Lets you see a specific person and what is within one pace of that person. The image is clear enough to allow reading.<br>
(Base 4, +4 Arc, +1 Conc, +1 requisite)

### Muto Corpus Guidelines

These spells transform people. There are beneficial spells to cast on yourself and your companions, and harmful spells to cast on your foes.

Transformations do not usually completely eradicate the original form; something of the original remains. If you turn a fat, one-armed man into a wolf, the wolf is fat, three-legged, and male.

Transformations can have subtle (or sometimes dramatic) permanent effects. Someone who spends a month or more as an animal begins to act and think like that animal. Eventually, weak-willed individuals might lose their human identity altogether. When transformed back into a human, the target might temporarily or permanently retain some feature of the other shape. Someone turned into a rabbit and back might keep a fondness for carrots or retain unnaturally big ears. Transformations are tricky things.

Muto Corpus spells cannot alter a person's mind, so they leave the transformed person's intelligence and knowledge intact. Magi can cast spells while in animal form, but they suffer the normal –15 penalty for casting without hands or voice. The transformed person gains any abilities the animal form has though it may take a day or so of experience to get used to using them.

To change accouterments along with the body involves requisites. For example, you need a casting requisite of Animal for leather worn, Aquam for any liquids carried, and Terram for metal objects worn (including studs in armor). Accouterments are transformed only if they are actually being worn, not if they are just being carried in the hand. Simply put, equipment will not be transformed for one of two reasons: either because you choose not to use the casting requisites or because the storyguide rules that the equipment is not sufficiently part of the target's worn equipment. This untransformed equipment falls to the ground.

Certain shapechanging spells allow the target to change back by concentrating. While concentrating, you symbolically remove some item to break the spell, such as a wolfskin cloak or some water in your hands. These foci are essential if you are to be able to break the spell in this way. If you cast the spell without them, you must either dispel the magic with Perdo Vim, or wait for the duration to expire.

Muto Corpus botches may lead to a spell lasting indefinitely, and proving hard to dispel.

| Level | Muto Corpus Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| 2 | • Change someone to give them a minor ability |
| 3 | • Utterly change the appearance or size of a person (though they must still remain human in form)<br>• Change non-living human bone to have an unnatural property (requisites may be needed) |
| 5 | • Make a body resistant to damage (+1 Soak)<br>• Add or remove human body parts from the target in such a way that he no longer looks human; these parts are normally functional, although a spell may be deliberately designed so that they are not (the Target is Part, not Individual, although Group and higher Targets work as normal) |
| 10 | • Turn a human into a land animal (with an Animal requisite)<br>• Make a body resistant to damage (+2 Soak) |
| 15 | • Make a body resistant to damage (+3 Soak) |
| 20 | • Turn a human into a bird or a fish (Animal requisite)<br>• Make a body resistant to damage (+4 Soak) |
| 25 | • Turn a human into a solid inanimate object (Terram requisite)<br>• Make a body resistant to damage (+5 Soak)<br>• Turn a human into a plant (Herbam requisite) |
| 30 | • Turn a human into an insubstantial object (Auram requisite) |

### Muto Corpus Spells

#### LEVEL 5

##### Eyes of the Cat
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Animal<br>
The target gains the eyes of a cat, which allow him or her to see in near darkness (but not in absolute darkness, such as a lightless subterranean cavern).<br>
(Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, requisite free)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Disguise of the New Visage
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part<br>
The target's facial features are transformed to any approximately human configuration you choose. In Cralian of Tremere's version of this spell, the new visage is always as unassuming as possible.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part)

##### Preternatural Growth and Shrinking
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Adds +1 to the target's normal Size or decreases it by up to 2 points.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 because the spell allows growth or two kinds of shrinking)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Arm of the Infant
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Part<br>
Shrinks a person's arm to half its original length and makes it pudgy, like an infant's.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +1 Part)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Gift of the Bear's Fortitude
R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Your flesh becomes resistant to physical damage. You get +3 to your Soak. Your flesh is tough and insensitive; any rolls that involve a sensitive touch (such as for picking a lock) are at -1.<br>
(Base 15, +2 Sun)

##### Shape of the Woodland Prowler
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Animal<br>
You place a wolf skin over yourself or another, and the target changes into a wolf. The target may change back at will, ending the spell. Before casting this spell, you must first, of course, acquire the skin of a wolf, if you want to be able to end the spell early.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Cloak of Black Feathers
R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Animal<br>
You hang a small cape of raven feathers on your back and transform into a raven. You can resume human form at will, but doing so ends the spell.<br>
(Base 20. +2 Sun)

##### Curse of Circe
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Animal<br>
Turns a person into a pig.<br>
(Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Stance of the Patient Tree
R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Herbam<br>
You turn yourself into a tree about 12 feet high, with a trunk about a foot thick. You can sense only the most basic things, such as night and day, strong winds, and things that can affect a tree. You can resume human form at will, but doing so ends the spell. While in tree form, you do not heal any wounds or restore any Fatigue levels. The tree branch you use to let yourself change back determines the kind of tree you become, and you cannot cast the spell without the branch.<br>
(Base 25, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Cloak of Mist
R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Auram<br>
You turn yourself into a thick, cohesive mist of approximately human size. You can float through the air at walking speed and can see and hear what is going on around you. You can also seep through cracks, but cannot move through solid objects. You may return to human form at any time, but doing so ends the spell. As mist, you are subject to the forces of the wind. In order to cast this spell, you inhale some mist, and you keep the mist in your 'mouth' until you want to end the spell.<br>
(Base 30, +2 Sun)

##### Transform to Water
R: Per, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Aquam<br>
You turn yourself into water, one pint for every pound of the your weight. As water, you can hold yourself together unless someone makes an effort to separate part of you from the rest. You can roll slowly across the ground, but cannot move uphill. You can hear sounds, feel things that touch you, and can sense temperature. You can resume human form at will, but doing so ends the spell. You cannot resume human form if a significant part of your body/water is separated from the rest. You pour a small amount of water into your hands when you cast the spell.<br>
(Base 30, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 45

##### The Silent Vigil
R: Per, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
Req: Terram<br>
You can move into and become part of a rock formation that is at least twice your size. While in the stone, you can hear what is going on around you, but you cannot use other senses. The spell lasts until you come out, and you must come out where you went in. You have no need for food or drink, though you do age. Rolls to recover from Fatigue or wounds take twice as long to make while you are in the stone. Casting requisites are required for items you take with you into the stone.<br>
(Base 25, +3 Moon, +1 for special effect)

#### LEVEL 60

##### Mists of Change
R: Voice, D: Sun & Year, T: Bound, Ritual<br>
Req: Animal<br>
As this spell is cast, a whipping wind arises and patches of mist begin to roll across the landscape. Sometimes, a patch of mist suddenly envelops a person for a few seconds, during which time the victim cannot move. When the mist blows away, continuing its course, the person is left transformed into a random creature. Roll a simple die to determine the result:

| Roll | Animal                             |
| ---- | ---------------------------------- |
| 1    | Wolf                               |
| 2    | Horse                              |
| 3    | Brown Bear                         |
| 4    | Large Toad                         |
| 5    | Ferret                             |
| 6    | Viper                              |
| 7    | Boar/Sow                           |
| 8    | Dog                                |
| 9    | Cat                                |
| 0    | Other (storyguide picks; be cruel) |

People transformed retain their human minds, but inherit all the passions and instincts of their new forms. The mist covers the target area, which must be in sight when you cast the spell. The mists affect the area until sunrise or sunset, and transform anyone who remains in the area during that time. For important characters, roll a simple die when the spell is cast and every half hour afterwards, and on a roll lower than the number of rolls made so far the mists envelope and transform them at some point in the next half hour. The transformations last for a Year.<br>
(Base 10, +2 Voice, +4 Year, +4 Bound, slightly nonstandard effect, mist and wind are cosmetic only)

### Perdo Corpus Guidelines

These spells harm people directly, often permanently, unless outside magics are used to repair the damage.

Diseases caused by magic have a base Ease Factor of 6. For every magnitude by which the spell level increases, the Ease Factor increases by 1. It is not possible to reduce the level by reducing the Ease Factor. (See page 8)

| Level | Perdo Corpus Guideline |
| ----- | ---------------------- |
| 3 | • Do superficial damage to a body (for example, remove its hair) |
| 4 | • Cause a person pain, but do no real damage |
| 5 | • Inflict a Light Wound<br>• Destroy a corpse<br>• Hamper a person without actually injuring them (for example, make them lame, blur their eyesight; heals as a Light Wound) |
| 10 | • Inflict a Medium Wound<br>• Cause the loss of a Fatigue level |
| 15 | • Age someone by up to five years<br>• Cripple a limb, making it unusable but still capable of healing (heals as a Medium Wound)<br>• Destroy one of a person's minor senses (heals as a Medium Wound)<br>• Inflict a Heavy Wound |
| 20 | • Destroy one of a person's major senses (heals as a Heavy Wound)<br>• Inflict a major disease<br>• Destroy or sever a limb, so that it cannot heal naturally<br>• Inflict an Incapacitating Wound |
| 30 | • Kill a person |
| 40 | • Destroy one property of a person, such as their weight or solidity |

### Perdo Corpus Spells

#### LEVEL 5

##### Touch of the Goose Feather
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
The target lets out a loud sneeze. Spellcasters who sneeze must make Intelligence + Concentration stress rolls against an Ease Factor of 12 to maintain concentration, and others get –1 on most activities at the moment of the sneeze.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Dust to Dust
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Turns a dead body or mindless undead body to dust in two rounds. The spell doesn't affect those undead possessed by spirits. To do this to an animal corpse requires a Perdo Animal spell.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice)

#### The Wound That Weeps
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
When casting this spell, you point at the victim and a large wound opens on his or her body. The wound is not a deep one, but it bleeds profusely. This is only a Light Wound, but it looks bad.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Invocation of Weariness
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
The target loses a Fatigue level. The phrases used with this spell are usually singsong melodies, which lull the victim into drowsiness.<br>
(Base 10, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Bane of the Decrepit Body
R: Voice, D: Mom. T: Ind<br>
The target ages 5 years. Determine effects normally. This spell does not work on children younger than age 16.<br>
(Base 15, +2 Voice)

##### Curse of the Leprous Flesh
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
This spell inflicts leprosy on the target, which causes a person's flesh to rot off in a matter of weeks a truly hideous sight. Much of the target's flesh literally hangs from his or her frame, and there is a pungent rotting smell about him at all times. The target takes an Incapacitating Wound from the disease, and must roll as normal to recover. The target also loses a point of Stamina by the time the disease ends. If the victim somehow survives this curse, he is shunned by mundane communities. If the victim succeeds in a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6 when the spell is cast, he shakes off the disease, although he still feels unwell for a few days, and may have problems if an astute doctor realizes he is leprous.<br>
(Base 20, +1 Touch)

##### Grip of the Choking Hand
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
The target feels an invisible, strangling hand on the throat. Each round, the target loses a Fatigue level. Once the target falls unconscious, the spell has no further effect. The spell works by seriously constricting the target's windpipe, hence the feeling. This constriction is not quite enough to kill, however.<br>
(Base 10, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Incantation of the Milky Eyes
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Blinds a target, leaving the eyes milky with cataracts. This heals as a Heavy Wound.<br>
(Base 20, +2 Voice)

#### Twist of the Tongue
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Twists the target's tongue into a spiral, completely destroying the ability to speak. A grave offense to a magus. The damage heals as a Medium Wound.<br>
(Base 15, +2 Voice, +1 Part)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Clenching Grasp of the Crushed Heart
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
When casting this spell, you make a clenching motion with your hand. The victim doubles over and dies at once.<br>
(Base 30, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 45

##### The Kiss of Death
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
The person you kiss dies a sudden death. The only mark on the corpse is the black imprint of your lips. You do not need to speak when casting this spell, and thus gain no penalty from silence. (This is why the spell is higher level than the guidelines would indicate.)<br>
(Base 30, +1 Touch, +2 for no words)

#### LEVEL 55

##### Curse of the Unportended Plague
R: Sight, D: Mom, T: Bound, Ritual<br>
Starts a plague in a city or other Boundary. Everyone within the boundary is afflicted with the disease when the ritual is complete, and suffers as described under Curse of the Leprous Flesh, on the previous page. The conditions causing the disease last but a moment, so people entering the area after the spell is cast are safe. Using, or even transcribing, this spell is rigorously discouraged by most of the Order of Hermes. (Note: the disease caused by this spell is not the later Bubonic Plague, which is unknown in Europe in 1220.)<br>
(Base 20, +3 Sight, +4 Bound)

### Rego Corpus Guidelines

Rego Corpus botches often take control of the caster's body, and move it in ways he would not want.

Rego Corpus can be used to perform surgery. Detailed rules for surgery can be found in Art and Academe.

| Level | Rego Corpus Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| General | • Ward against creatures associated with Corpus from one realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with a Might less than or equal to the level of the spell (note that Hermetic magi have no Might, and thus are not affected by such spells) (Touch, Ring, Circle) |
| 2 | • Make a target lose control of a body part |
| 3 | • Move a target slowly in one direction, as long as the surface can support its weight<br>• Invoke a minor symptom of a disease without creating any underlying malaise (e.g. rash, mild fever, cough) |
| 4 | • Control the large-scale physical movements of a target<br>• Move a target slowly in any direction you please<br>• Move a target slowly straight up, or in one direction over surfaces that cannot support it |
| 5 | • Hold a target's body motionless<br>• Invoke a major symptom of a disease without creating any underlying malaise (e.g. vomiting, boils, paralysis)<br>• Move a target slowly in any direction you please, even if the target is unsupported<br>• Perform a trivial surgical procedure (inflicting a Fatigue level)<br>• Control a disembodied spirit associated with Corpus |
| 10 | • Control a target's motions<br>• Eliminate the penalties of Fatigue and wounds<br>• Animate a corpse<br>• Transport the target instantly up to 5 paces<br>• Perform a minor surgical procedure, inflicting a Light Wound or preventing a Light Wound from worsening |
| 15 | • Direct the flow of bodily energy<br>• Move a target quickly in any direction you please, even if it is unsupported<br>• Summon a disembodied spirit associated with Corpus<br>• Transport the target instantly up to 50 paces<br>• Ward a target against other human beings (to ward off a Hermetic magus, the ward must penetrate his Magic Resistance)<br>• Perform a major surgical procedure, inflicting a Medium Wound or preventing a Medium Wound from worsening |
| 20 | • Transport the target instantly up to 500 paces<br>• Perform a critical surgical procedure, preventing a Heavy Wound from worsening |
| 25 | • Transport the target instantly up to one league<br>• Perform a life-saving surgical procedure, preventing an Incapacitating or Fatal Wound from worsening |
| 30 | • Transport the target instantly up to seven leagues |
| 35 | • Transport the target instantly to a place you have an Arcane Connection to |

### Rego Corpus Svells

#### LEVEL 5

##### Curse of the Unruly Tongue
R: Voice, D: Conc. T: Ind<br>
Causes the target to stutter and slur words. Communication rolls are at -3. Spoken spells are at -6 to the spellcasting roll, and there is an extra botch die.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

##### Spasms of the Uncontrolled Hand
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
One of the target's hands spasms, causing him to drop anything he is holding in it. It keeps spasming for as long as you concentrate.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Rise of the Feathery Body
R: Touch, D: Conc. T: Ind.<br>
Allows the target to float vertically to any height, carrying up to 50 pounds, and rising as fast as smoke rises, slower if carrying a heavy load. The target cannot move horizontally through this spell.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Despair of the Quivering Manacles
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Your target shakes vigorously from side to side without falling. Those affected get -3 on rolls requiring physical movement, and -1 to most other rolls.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

##### Endurance of the Berserkers
R: Per. D: Conc. T: Ind<br>
Your body acts as though it were unwounded and unfatigued for as long as you concentrate. Keep track of the actual Fatigue levels that the body loses while "berserk," because as soon as the spell wears off, you lose those levels. If you run out of Fatigue levels, the spell terminates immediately and you fall unconscious. A character under the influence of this spell does risk worsening wounds, but he may not notice.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Conc)

##### Gift of the Frog's Legs
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Allows the target to leap up to 15 feet vertically or 25 feet horizontally (2 feet less for every Encumbrance point). The person must make a Dexterity - Encumbrance stress roll against an Ease Factor of 0 to land without injury. A miss indicates that he takes a Light Wound, and a botch indicates a Medium Wound. The target can only leap once for each casting of the spell, and that leap must be made within ten seconds. As with a frog's leap, a running start does not improve the leap.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Touch.)

##### Lifting the Dangling Puppet
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Lifts a person of Size +1 or less vertically into the air. Generally, you can make the target rise or descend as fast as smoke rises, but a heavier person rises more slowly and falls more quickly.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 20

##### The Gift of Vigor
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Transfers bodily energy from you to any target who is at a lower Fatigue level than you. You are thus at the target's current Fatigue level, and he or she assumes your previous level. If you lose a Fatigue level from casting this spell, the loss comes after the transfer. Magi have long looked for a way to restore their energy in order to cast more spells. This is the closest they've come.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Awaken the Slumbering Corpse
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Causes a corpse to function at your verbal command. Commands have to be very simple, like "attack anyone who comes through here." The corpse used cannot have been buried by Church ceremony.<br>
(Base 10, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

##### Strings of the Unwilling Marionette
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
You can control the physical movements of a person, such as walking, standing, and turning. If the target resists the control, the movements are jerky. The target can yell, but you can prevent intelligible speech by controlling the target's mouth. The target must be conscious to be moved about.<br>
(Base 10, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Seven-league Stride
R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Transports you to any place within seven leagues either that you can see or that you have an Arcane Connection with. If you fail an Intelligence + Finesse stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9, your arrival goes slightly awry. For instance, you might fall when you appear, or just be facing the wrong way. A botch means you appear in the wrong place. perhaps even in a wall. Praefactus of Bonisagus's version of this spell always allows him to appear in a safe, unembarrassing place (assuming he doesn't fail his Finesse roll). All Praefactus's spells make him seem as dignified as possible - manifesting his wizard's sigil.<br>
(Base 30)

#### LEVEL 35

##### The Leap of Homecoming
R: Per, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Transports you to any place to which you have an Arcane Connection. Most magi use this to return to their laboratories.<br>
(Base 35)

##### The Walking Corpse
R: Touch, D: Year, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Turns a corpse into a nearly mindless servant that can follow your simple verbal commands faithfully but unimaginatively. Unless the corpse is preserved with *Charm Against Putrefaction* or the equivalent, the body decays normally, but even a skeleton can be animated.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Touch, +4 Year)

---

