## Terram Spells

Terram spells, in addition to covering earth, stone, clay, metal, and glass, can sometimes affect inanimate objects in general. For instance, Wielding the Invisible Sling (ReTe 10) throws all manner of nonliving things.

Though Terram spells affect all manner of solid objects, it is harder to affect certain materials: Here, in increasing order of difficulty, are the materials Terram spells affect: earth (sand, dirt, mud), clay, stone, glass, metal, gemstones. Each level of difficulty does not necessarily represent an increase in one level of magnitude.

The base Individual for Terram depends on the material involved. For sand, dirt, mud, clay, or similar substances, it is about ten cubic paces of stuff. For stone, it is a single cubic pace. For base metals, it is a cubic foot, while for precious metals it is a tenth of that. For gemstones, the base individual is one cubic inch in size.

### Creo Terram Guidelines

Creating earth in an elaborate shape or, with a Muto requisite, with some unnatural property is one level of magnitude higher than the listed guidelines.

Wizard's sigils commonly visible in Creo Terram spells involve the object created being bizarre in some way, such as dirt being a specific color or texture.

Creo Terram botches can entomb the caster in earth or stone, as well as creating the wrong sort of material, or creating it in the wrong place.

| Level | Creo Terram Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| 1 | • Create sand, dirt, mud, or clay |
| 3 | • Create stone or glass |
| 5 | • Create base metal |
| 15 | • Create precious metal<br>• Repair a crafted item, returning it to an "as new" state |
| 25 | • Create gemstone<br>• Create an earth elemental from a base amount of elemental matter (Ritual) |

#### LEVEL 15

##### Seal the Earth
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group<br>
Creates enough dirt to fill in a pit of up to 6 paces across and 3 paces deep.<br>
(Base 1, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Touch of Midas
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
This spell creates a roughly spherical lump of gold about six inches across. This weighs about eighty pounds, and is enough money to keep a peasant family in comfort for about three hundred years.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Wall of Protecting Stone
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Makes a wall of granite up to 25 paces wide, 4 paces high, and 1 pace thick. One needs miner's tools to break through it, though it can be toppled if it is not connected to a support on its side or top.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 size)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Conjuring the Mystic Tower
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
An elaborately carved tower, formed from a single block of stone, rises out of the ground. The tower stands 80 feet high and is 30 feet wide, with a foundation set 20 feet into the ground. You determine the design of the chambers within.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +4 size, +3 elaborate design)

### Intellego Terram Guidelines

Intellego Terram spell levels are not affected by the material of the thing affected, except as explicitly noted in the guidelines.

Intellego Terram botches normally provide false information.

| Level | Intellego Terram Guideline |
| ----- | -------------------------- |
| 2 | • Learn one visible property of an object (a property that someone with appropriate skills could determine just by looking) |
| 4 | • Learn one mundane property of an object<br>• See an object and its surroundings |
| 5 | • Learn all components of a mixture or alloy |
| 10 | • Learn all the natural properties of an object |
| 15 | • Sense all the mundane properties of a composite object |
| 20 | • Learn the magical properties of an object<br>• Make your senses unhindered by earth (for example, see right through a rock)<br>• Speak with a natural rock (for example, a boulder) |
| 25 | • Speak with an artificial rock (for example, a statue) |
| 30 | • Commune with a natural rock; speak with a metal object (for example, a knife) |
| 35 | • Commune with an artificial rock (for example, a statue) |
| 40 | • Commune with a metal object (for example, a knife) |

### Intellego Terram Spells

#### LEVEL 4

##### Probe for Pure Silver
R: Per, D: Mom, T: Smell<br>
You can smell silver, and follow the scent.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Smell)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Eyes of the Eons
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Determines the age of any nonliving target to within 10% of its actual age.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Eyes of the Treacherous Terrain
R: Per, D: Conc, T: Vision<br>
You can tell intuitively if any natural terrain you see is treacherous, such as if a rock field is prone to sliding.<br>
(Base 2, +1 Conc, +4 Vision)

#### LEVEL 20

##### The Miner's Keen Eye
R: Per, D: Conc, T: Vision<br>
You can see any one type of mineral (gold, diamond, sand), specified at the time of casting, through up to 3 paces of intervening material. You have a good idea of how much is there and how pure it is, if appropriate.<br>
(Base 2, +1 Conc, +4 Vision, +1 see through intervening material)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Tracks of the Faerie Glow
R: Per, D: Conc, T: Vision<br>
Causes even faintly perceptible tracks of a specific being to glow with a faint magic light, making them stand out when you are within 30 paces of them. The glow provides a bonus to Tracking rolls, which depends on the relationship between the target being tracked and the terrain. If the target is magically related to the terrain, +2; native to the terrain, +4; neutral to the terrain, +6; inimical to the terrain, +8. Tracking at night without a light source doubles the bonus. The more faint the tracks are, the more dimly they glow, so the storyguide may also modify the bonus based on the length of time since the target passed.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Conc, +4 Vision)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Stone Tell of the Mind That Sits
R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Allows you to talk with natural stone. A stone's answers feel slow and ponderous, but do not actually take any longer than a normal conversation. Though a stone is usually willing to talk, its direction sense and awareness of quickly moving things (such as people) are limited.<br>
(Base 20, +1 Touch, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Sense the Feet That Thread the Earth
R: Touch, D: Conc, T: Part<br>
You touch the earth and feel what is moving along the ground within a mile of where you stand. You can tell the direction, distance, weight, number, and manner of movement of moving things. For instance, you might sense "a single 50-stone creature slithering toward us, a hundred rods in that direction." This spell is derived from the Terram tradition from which Guernicus the Founder came, and does not fit well into Hermetic theory.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +1 Conc, +1 Part, +3 size)

#### LEVEL 50

##### Dream of the Mind That Sits
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Creo<br>
Allows you to probe the memories of a spirit within a natural stone object. The spell also perfects those memories. Probing the memories of such a spirit is extremely slow. A typical session lasts between six and twelve hours, during which the caster is oblivious to the outside world. The spell allows the caster to perceive the memories of the spirit. The spirit's senses are limited and slow, but its memory of them is very long. Using this spell the caster can relive events witnessed by the spirit, as it recalls them. Larger stone objects have more powerful spirits and so have better perceptions. Precisely what level of detail an individual spirit can perceive is up to the storyguide.<br>
(Base 30, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Creo effect)

### Muto Terram Guidelines

The targets below are for changing dirt. To change to or from sand, mud, or clay, use the same level of magnitude as for dirt. To change to or from stone or glass, add one level of magnitude. To change to or from metal or gemstone, add two levels of magnitude. These adjustments only apply once, so that changing metal to metal is only two magnitudes higher.

The amount of material you can change is limited by the guidelines for each end. Thus, you can turn a cubic pace of stone into a cubic inch of gemstone with a base Individual.

Serious Muto Terram botches have a tendency to turn the caster to stone or metal, but lesser botches transform the wrong thing, or transform things in the wrong way.

| Level | Muto Terram Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| General | • Convert part of an earth elemental's body into another type of earth (soil to dust, etc.), reducing the elemental's Might pool by the level of the spell +2 magnitudes. If the elemental is not destroyed by this effect, when the duration ends it can restore this Might by re-absorbing the matter |
| 1 | • Change one property of dirt |
| 2 | • Change dirt to another type of natural earth (for example, sand to loam) |
| 3 | • Change dirt so that it is slightly unnatural (requisites may be required)<br>• Change dirt into a liquid or gas (with requisites)<br>• Change dirt to stone, or vice versa |
| 4 | • Change dirt so that it is highly unnatural (requisites will often be required)<br>• Change dirt into a mixture of liquids, solids, and gases (with requisites)<br>• Change dirt into a plant (with requisites)<br>• Make something grow to ten times its previous volume |
| 5 | • Change dirt into a slightly unnatural liquid or gas (with requisites)<br>• Change dirt into an animal (with requisites) |
| 10 | • Change dirt into a highly unnatural liquid or gas (with requisites) |

### Muto Terram Spells

#### LEVEL 10

##### The Crystal Dart
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Req: Rego<br>
The spell transforms a stone into a 10-inch crystal dart that rises from the ground at your feet, floats into the air, and speeds off like an arrow at a target that is within Voice range. It does +5 damage (because of the sharp edges of the crystal as much as its speed), and always hits its target, although it must Penetrate Magic Resistance to have any real effect.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Rego requisite)

##### Supple Iron and Rigid Rope
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Makes a flexible object stiff or a stiff object flexible. Casting requisites of Forms appropriate to the materials affected are required. Note that, despite the name, this spell is not high enough level to affect iron.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Rock of Viscid Clay
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part<br>
Softens rock enough that it may be dug out, molded, and otherwise manipulated in the same way that hard river clay can be. The rock is slightly sticky. The spell affects rock in a roughly spherical shape with a three-foot diameter.<br>
(Base 2, +1 stone, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Edge of the Razor
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Sharpens any metal edge to a degree unequaled by manual methods. An edged or pointed weapon gains a +2 bonus to Damage. Good-natured magi reward grogs by enchanting their weapons in this way, although since the resulting sword is resisted by Magic Resistance they rarely do this for all their grogs.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 metal)

##### Earth That Breaks No More
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Part<br>
Turns a volume of packed dirt up to ten cubic paces into stone.<br>
(Base 2, +1 stone, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 Part, +1 size)

##### Object of Increased Size
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
This spell enlarges an inanimate object originally no bigger than a large chest. The object doubles in each dimension and increases its weight eight times. The size increase is based on the object's original, natural size, so casting the spell more than once on an object has no effect. Noble elements like gold, silver, and gems, are not affected by this spell. If any part of the item resists growth, the item as a whole does not grow. Casting requisites are required for the appropriate Form for the target.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +1 stone)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Teeth of the Earth Mother
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Group<br>
You cause twenty pointed pillars of white marble to spring up from the ground to a height of 12 feet, forming a circle 3 paces in diameter. At their tops, the pillars are thin and as sharp as spears. At the base, where they touch, they are 18 inches thick. When the pillars spring up, they can be used to cage people, to form a wall, or simply to skewer enemies. Climbing to the top of the pillars requires three Dexterity + Athletics stress rolls against an Ease Factor of 12, and the tops break away when the target reaches them, causing the victim to fall. Skewering a target does +25 damage, possibly more on following rounds if the victim struggles or is exceptionally heavy. When the spell ends, the pillars crumble to dust.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +2 Sun, +2 Group, +2 fancy effect)

### Perdo Terram Guidelines

To destroy sand, mud, or clay, use the same level of magnitude as for earth. To destroy stone or glass, add one magnitude. To destroy metal or gemstone, add two magnitudes.

Perdo Terram botches, as well as destroying the wrong thing, can destroy the ground that the caster is standing on, or metal objects that he is holding.

| Level | Perdo Terram Guideline |
| ----- | ---------------------- |
| General | • Destroy sufficient matter to reduce an earth elemental's Might Score by the level of the spell +2 magnitudes |
| 2 | • Weaken dirt |
| 3 | • Destroy dirt |
| 5 | • Destroy one aspect of dirt, such as its weight or its cohesiveness |

### Perdo Terram Spells

#### LEVEL 10

##### Fist of Shattering
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
An object of stone or weaker material up to a pace across breaks apart. The appropriate Form for the target is a casting requisite.<br>
(Base 3, +1 stone, +2 Voice)

##### Rusted Decay of Ten-score Years
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
After the spell is cast, the metal of the target becomes so thoroughly rusted that it breaks if used in any demanding way (for example, used to strike a blow in combat or to pry open a door). It also loses any sharpness it might once have had.<br>
(Base 2, +2 metal, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Pit of the Gaping Earth
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
The dirt in a circle 6 paces across recedes into the ground, leaving a pit 9 feet deep. If the target area contains material other than dirt, that material is not affected.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +1 size)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Obliteration of the Metallic Barrier
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Reg: Rego<br>
Shatters a barrier of metal or stone up to one foot thick. Those within one pace of the barrier, on the opposite side from you, take +10 Damage. Alchemically refined and magical metals may be able to withstand this spell.<br>
(Base 3, +2 metal, +1 Touch, +1 size, +1 Rego to fling the fragments away)

##### Stone to Falling Dust
R: Sight, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
One solid non-living object turns to a pile of dust. The object must be a base Individual or smaller, so a stone item can be a pace across while a metal item can only be one tenth that size in total. A casting requisite may be required, of the Form appropriate to the target.<br>
(Base 3, +2 metal/gems, +3 Sight)

#### LEVEL 25

##### End of the Mighty Castle
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Str<br>
A single stone structure, such as a castle keep or manor house, crumbles to dust and small pebbles. Anyone inside at the time takes +10 damage from falling and having stones land on them, possibly more if the structure is particularly large.<br>
(Base 3, +1 stone, +2 Voice, +3 Str)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Cascade of Rocks
R: Sight, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Makes a cliff collapse, causing an avalanche. The effects depend on the size of the cliff and what lies below it.<br>
(Base 3, +1 stone, +3 Sight, +1 Part, +4 size)

### Rego Terram Guidelines

The guidelines for controlling dirt, sand, mud, or clay are listed below. Add one magnitude to control stone or glass, and two for metal or gemstones, unless the item is simply being moved from one place to another (as in Unseen Arm or either Invisible Sling). Manipulating objects with great precision may also be higher, depending on the level of precision.

Rego Terram botches often result in the caster being struck by large amounts of flying stone.

| Level | Rego Terram Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| General | • Ward against beings associated with Terram from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell (Touch, Ring, Circle) |
| 1 | • Control or move dirt in a natural fashion |
| 2 | • Control or move dirt in a slightly unnatural fashion<br>• Keep dirt away from you, under your conscious control (that is, you must be aware of its presence)<br>• Shape and form dirt, as if a craftsman had worked it |
| 3 | • Control or move dirt in a very unnatural fashion |
| 4 | • Transport a non-living object instantly up to 5 paces (add one magnitude for 50 paces, two magnitudes for 500 paces, three magnitudes for one league, four magnitudes for seven leagues, and five magnitudes for a place to which you have an Arcane Connection; casting requisites may be needed if the item is primarily not under the Form of Terram) |
| 5 | • Keep all dirt away from your body, or ward a target against dirt<br>• Control a disembodied spirit associated with Terram<br>• Completely control an earth elemental<br>• Hurl a hard projectile with enough force to do +5 damage (range increment of 20 paces; this applies magical force to the projectile at the moment of casting, and the projectile then moves naturally) |
| 10 | • Hurl a hard projectile with enough force to do +10 damage (range increment of 20 paces; this applies magical force to the projectile at the moment of casting, and the projectile then moves naturally) |
| 15 | • Summon a disembodied spirit associated with Terram<br>• Hurl a hard projectile with enough force to do +15 damage (range increment of 20 paces; this applies magical force to the projectile at the moment of casting, and the projectile then moves naturally) |

### Rego Terram Spells

#### GENERAL

##### Ward against Faeries of the Mountain
R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle<br>
As Ward Against Faeries of the Waters (ReAg Gen). but for faeries of earth and stone. At some angles at night, the ring may be seen as a dark brown dome.<br>

#### LEVEL 5

##### Unseen Arm
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Slowly moves a nonliving thing, like a mug, instrument, or small pouch of coins; it cannot oppose intentional resistance. Magi use this spell to manipulate things at a distance, but the spell cannot be used to pull something from a person's hand or to move something that is held. Casting requisites of an appropriate Form for the target are required.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Trackless Step
R: Touch, D: Special, T: Part<br>
You leave no tracks in the earth until you come to a stop, such as to rest or fight. This spell draws on pre-Hermetic traditions, and does not perfectly fit the categories of Hermetic magic.<br>
(Base 2, +1 Touch, +2 Special (based on Concentration), +1 Part)

##### Invisible Sling of Vilano
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Hurl a stone (of a size that could be thrown with a mundane sling) at a target within range. Unlike Wielding the Invisible Sling, this spell hurls the stone as a projectile. An aiming roll is required to hit the intended target, but if it succeeds, Magic Resistance offers no protection. The stone inflicts +5 damage on impact and has a range increment of 20 paces.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Touch)

##### Wielding the Invisible Sling
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Hurls any nearby object that could normally be thrown by a person at any target within range. The object must not be held down or otherwise restrained. Damage depends on the object thrown, up to +5 for a fist-sized stone. The object always hits, but it is resisted by Magic Resistance. Casting requisites of an appropriate Form for the target are required.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice)

##### The Forgiving Earth
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Loosens earth in a 15-pace-by-15-pace area to a depth of one foot, making packed dirt as loose as plowed ground.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +1 size)

##### The Unseen Porter
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Like *Unseen Arm* (ReTe 5), but it can carry large objects such as crates. Roughly speaking, it has the capabilities of a very strong person (Str +5). The heavier the object is, the slower the unseen porter moves. If delicacy is required, high Finesse stress rolls (Ease Factor 12 or so) are needed. The spell can only carry inanimate objects, and cannot carry you. It also cannot lift things more than 6 feet above the ground. Casting requisites of an appropriate Form for the target are required.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

##### Unyielding Earth
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Compacts the surface of the ground in a 15-pace-by-15-pace area to a depth of one foot, making it more solid. Mud becomes as soft earth, and soft earth becomes as packed dirt.<br>
(Base 2, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +1 size)

#### LEVEL 15

##### The Earth's Carbuncle
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Req: Muto<br>
Causes a 1-pace circle of ground to become jagged stone, just under the surface, and those fragments burst into the air. Anyone standing on the circle is thrown into the air and hit with flying debris. Damage is +10.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +1 Muto requisite)

##### Hands of the Grasping Earth
R: Voice, D: Diam, T: Part<br>
Reg: Muto<br>
Earthen hands from beneath the target rise out of the ground, and grasp the target's ankles. To break free requires a Strength stress roll of 15+. (One attempt is allowed per round, and each requires a Fatigue roll.) Each hand can be destroyed by beating its +25 Soak roll (hacking weapons do double normal damage) and inflicting a Light Wound.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Diam, +1 Part, requisite free)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Crest of the Earth Wave
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Creates a wave in the earth that starts at your feet and travels out to the range of your Voice in a designated direction. It starts as a narrow ripple and within 5 paces reaches its full size of 5 feet high and 30 paces wide. It moves about 50 paces per round. Those caught in its path must make Dexterity stress rolls against an Ease Factor of 12 to leap over the wave, or they are tossed aside and take +10 Damage. The wave overturns trees and damages buildings in its path.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +2 size)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Creeping Chasm
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Creates a chasm that runs from the ground in front of your feet towards some target within range that you designate. The chasm travels about 4 paces per round, growing wider as it travels, reaching a maximum width of 20 feet at a distance of 30 paces. The chasm is 20 to 30 feet deep, and the sides are likely to collapse, so any caught in it are in a bit of a bind. To avoid the growing chasm, a target must make a Quickness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. The spell effect lasts a moment, creating the stresses that then open the chasm over a few rounds. The normal forces of the earth tend to close the chasm in a week or so, but may not in some locations.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +3 size, +1 fancy effect)

##### Earth Shock
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Part<br>
Shakes the ground in a 100 pace radius. All affected by this spell must make a Quickness - Encumbrance stress roll against an Ease Factor of 10 or fall. Apply these modifiers: standing still, +2; on solid stone, +2; moving slowly, +0; on earth, +0; running, -2; standing on a narrow bridge, -6.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Part, +4 size)

##### The Earth Split Asunder
R: Voice, D: Spec, T: Part<br>
Creates a 5-foot-wide, 60-foot-long, 10-footdeep crack in the ground. It opens on one round, stays open for another round, and closes at the start of a third round, crushing all within it for +25 damage. You must maintain concentration for all three rounds, or the pit slowly closes, over an hour's time, rather than shutting quickly and violently. To avoid the pit, those in its vicinity other than the caster must make a Quickness stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Falling in incurs +5 damage. To escape, another such roll is made. Unless outside help is provided, people in the pit only get one chance to escape.<br>
(Base 3, +2 Voice, +1 Special based on Mom, +1 Part, +2 size, +1 fancy effect)

#### LEVEL 75

##### Hermes' Portal
R: Arc. D: Year, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Creates a magical portal through which people, animals, and objects can travel almost instantaneously. The ritual must be cast twice, simultaneously at two different locations, and after the rituals are performed, there is a magical connection between them. The magi conducting each ritual must have an Arcane Connection (such as a clod of dirt) to the other location when they are conducting the ritual. The portal is activated by some command word or ritual determined when the portal is enchanted. Inanimate things and unwilling creatures may be transmitted if someone else says the command word, and pushes the subject through.<br>
(Mercurian Ritual)

---

