## Mentem Spells

Mentem spells govern thoughts, emotions, and memories. Intelligent minds are affected by Mentem spells, while the minds of beasts are affected only by Animal spells and those of elementals, in so far as they have them, by the appropriate elemental Form. The mental Characteristics are Intelligence, Perception, Presence, and Communication, and they can be affected by Mentem spells.

Since the effects of Mentem spells are not usually visible, they give you a great deal of power when dealing with the common folk. Even spells requiring eye contact are relatively inconspicuous when cast without voice or gestures, but only powerful magi can cast spells this way in the Dominion.

Minds do not have a size, so size modifiers do not apply to Mentem effects with Individual targets. However, minds can be counted, so for Groups you still need to boost the size to affect more people. Similarly, Mentem spells affecting everyone in a Room, Structure, or Boundary have size modifiers in the normal way.

### Creo Mentem Guidelines

In addition to healing minds, these spells can also create thoughts, emotions, and memories in another person's mind. These creations interact normally with the target's other thoughts, and may be changed in the process.

Typical sigils for Creo Mentem spells involve some small quirk in what is created. A specific idea may lie in the background of all memories created, for example.

Creo Mentem botches might create inappropriate emotions in the caster's mind.

| Level | Creo Mentem Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| 3 | • Form words in another's mind |
| 4 | • Put a thought or emotion into another's mind<br>• Restore a memory of a brief event to a fresh state, as long as a fragment of it remains (the affected memory can be no more extensive than a short conversation of two or three rounds) |
| 5 | • Create a memory in another's mind<br>• Restore a memory of an event to a fresh state, as long as a fragment of it remains (the affected memory can be no more extensive than about two minutes) |
| 10 | • Restore a memory of a day's events to a fresh state, as long as a fragment of it remains (events are remembered as if they had occurred only an hour before)<br>• Spark a twinge of conscience in an intelligent being's mind, overriding the temporary obsession of a demon |
| 30 | • Increase one of a person's mental Characteristics by one point, to no more than 0 |
| 35 | • Increase one of a person's mental Characteristics by one point, to no more than +1 |
| 40 | • Increase one of a person's mental Characteristics by one point, to no more than +2 |
| 45 | • Increase one of a person's mental Characteristics by one point, to no more than +3 |
| 50 | • Increase one of a person's mental Characteristics by one point, to no more than +4 |
| 55 | • Increase one of a person's mental Characteristics by one point, to no more than +5 |

## Creo Mentem Spells

#### LEVEL 10

##### Words of the Unbroken Silence
R: Sight, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Lets you say two words directly to the mind of a target. The target can recognize your voice and knows that the message is of supernatural origin.<br>
(Base 3, +3 Sight)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Panic of the Trembling Heart
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Creates an overpowering fear in one person of a specific object, person, or place.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

##### Rising Ire
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Makes the target furious at someone or something of your choice. A stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 using an appropriate Personality Trait (like Calm) can hold the anger in check, but it is felt strongly regardless of the roll.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Memory of the Distant Dream
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Inserts a full and complete memory into a person's mind. If the target gives the memory some thought and concentration, and makes an Intelligence roll against an Ease Factor of 9, the memory is revealed as false. When the duration expires, the memory vanishes, although the subject may remember remembering it.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

##### Pains of the Perpetual Worry
R: Eye, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
Gives someone a nagging, taunting, painful emotion — a recurrent sense of anxiety, a fear of something he or she does not know, a fear of everything, and a fear of nothing. To have this spell cast on you is truly a curse.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +3 Moon)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Weight of a Thousand Hells
R: Eye, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
Causes the victim to feel the despair, anguish, pain, and sorrow of a thousand sinners in Hell. This is a horrible spell, for the victim loses almost all motivation and earthly cares. All he can feel is his own pain – endless, inexorable, and searing. Appropriate Personality Trait rolls suffer a harmful adjustment of –5, and the target suffers –2 on any rolls that require thought or concentration. The target has a strong tendency to do nothing but brood.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +3 Moon, +1 complex effect)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Gift of Reason
R: Touch, D: Mom, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Permanently increases the target's Intelligence by 1 point, to no higher than 0.<br>
(Base 30, +1 Touch)

### Intellego Mentem Guidelines

These spells are superb for cutting through the confusion of social interaction and the endless banter of the rabble. The lnAn spells that deal with the mind may also be used for ideas and guidelines for this section.

Note that writing does not contain any information of itself, and is generally Animal and Herbam or Terram, for the materials, not Mentem. To translate writing, you need someone who can read it, although you could read the translation from their mind.

In general, a momentary Mentem spell can answer a single question, although it is not necessary that the answer be expressible in a brief form. A Momentary spell could, for example, tell you exactly how the target felt about his father, no matter how complex the feeling, but it wouldn't tell you why he felt that way. Finding out a lot of information takes time.

Sigils for InMe spells usually involve information being transmitted in unique ways.

Intellego Mentem botches normally supply false information.

| Level | Intellego Mentem Guideline |
| ----- | -------------------------- |
| 4 | • Sense the state of consciousness of one intelligent being (for example, asleep, awake, meditating, dead, drugged, insane, or comatose) |
| 5 | • Sense a single emotion in a being<br>• Understand the meaning behind spoken sounds |
| 10 | • Sense all of the emotions in a being<br>• Discover the truth of a statement |
| 15 | • Speak with any one human<br>• Read a person's surface thoughts<br>• Pick a single answer from the mind of a target |
| 20 | • Read the last day's memories from one person |
| 25 | • Learn all the information you wish from a person's mind |

### Intellego Mentem Spells

#### LEVEL 10

##### Sight of the Transparent Motive
R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Detects the general motive most powerfully influencing the target at the moment. General motives are such things as fear, anger, and greed, not specific things like the desire to look good before one's superiors.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Eye)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Perception of the Conflicting Motives
R: Eve, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
You can detect the conflicting motives behind one target's actions. Thus you might learn that a guard feels conflict between fear and duty. This spell is often used before application of a Muto or Rego spell, since it is usually easier to change a target's emotions after you've sensed them than it is to create emotions.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Eve)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie
R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
For as long as you maintain this spell, the target exhales a misty breath with each spoken lie. Small bits of ice form on the person's lips if the lie is particularly severe. In winter, when breath is visible anyway, lies produce a greater than normal amount of mist (the mist actually billows out). A target who makes a Communication + Guile stress roll against an Ease Factor of 15 can determine whether any given statement will be taken by the spell as a lie. The spell can be defeated through extensive and judicious application of Creo Auram and Perdo Auram spells, and a demon is able to manipulate it in any way it wishes, as demons are the embodiment of deception and are never caught in a lie if they do not wish to be. House Guernicus brought the Order this spell, and it is a very poor Quaesitor who is without it.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Eye, +1 Conc, mist is a purely cosmetic effect and thus is free)

##### Posing the Silent Question
R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
You can ask one silent mental question of the target, then detect the answer. The truth of the answer is limited by the knowledge of the target. Questions to the effect of "What would you do if ...?" often receive inaccurate replies. You are likely to get what the target thinks he would do, not necessarily what he would really do. The target of this spell does not notice the questioning unless he or she resists the spell, in which case they notice the attempt.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Eye)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Thoughts within Babble
R: Per, D: Conc, T: Hearing<br>
You can understand the speech of those within the target area. Perception or Communication stress rolls are needed for difficult exchanges. You also understand people who misuse a language that you do speak; you know what they meant to say, as well as hearing what they actually said.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Conc, +3 Hearing)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Peering into the Mortal Mind
R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
You can thoroughly probe and understand the contents of the mind of the target, including his or her immediate and long-term motives, personal strengths and weaknesses, and other pertinent information.<br>
(Base 25, +1 Eye)

### Muto Mentem Guidelines

Muto Mentem spells give a mind properties it could not naturally acquire. These fall into three main categories.

First, changing memories. While memories may decay over time, they do not naturally change radically, so making them do so is Muto.

Second, emotions and thoughts that people cannot normally feel. This includes the thoughts of animals and similar.

Third, non-mental properties. This covers making a mind physical, and is very difficult.

Muto Mentem botches might change the mind of the caster, thus making this magic potentially very risky.

While Intellego spells can grant magical senses to a single person, granting a magical sense to multiple people is a function of Muto Mentem. The base level is one magnitude higher than the level of an Intellego spell to grant that sense at a Range of Personal and Duration of Momentary, and the Muto Mentem spell has requisites of Intellego and the appropriate Form or Forms. As for all base levels, this is for a spell with Range Personal, Duration Momentary, and Target Individual.

| Level | Muto Mentem Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| 1 | • Make a minor change in a person's memory of an event |
| 2 | • Make a major change to a person's memory of an event |
| 3 | • Make a major change to a person's memory of a series of events<br>• Make a major change to a person's emotion |
| 4 | • Make major changes to a person's memory of a period of their life<br>• Completely change a person's emotions |
| 5 | • Turn a single memory or emotion into a solid object (requisite of the Form of the shape; the person whose memory or emotion was transformed must be touching the item to feel the emotion or recall the memory; other people touching the object do not experience its mental aspects) |
| 10 | • Completely rewrite a person's memories |
| 15 | • Make a mind or spirit visible (Imaginem requisite)<br>• Utterly change a person's mind |
| 25 | • Make a mind or spirit solid (requisite of the Form of the shape) |

### Muto Mentem Spells

#### LEVEL 4

##### Recollection of Memories Never Quite Lived
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Changes the target's memory of a detail into a similar, though different, memory. The target is no more sure of this manufactured memory than of the authentic one, so he may discover strange fabrications to be false.<br>
(Base 1, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Mind of the Beast
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Animal<br>
You turn the mind of the target into that of an animal of your choice. The victim acts and thinks like that animal as much as possible; a person who thinks he is a bird will try to fly, but will not be able to. This can be dangerous for the target.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 35

##### Past of Another
R: Eye, D: Year, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
The target's memories are completely rewritten, and he is unable to remember his actual life until the effect is dispelled or expires.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Eye, +4 Year)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Inmost Companion
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Req: Animal<br>
The target's mind is made physical as a bird. This bird normally stays close to the target's body, but need not. If the target has Magic Resistance, it protects both his body and mind, as normal. No matter how far it travels, the target's mind controls his body, as well as the bird's, as normal. In particular, it can see through both sets of sense organs. If the bird is killed, the target also dies, as his mind has been killed.<br>
(Base 25, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

##### Vision of the Haunting Spirits
R: Touch, D: Sun, T: Room<br>
Req: Imaginem<br>
All spirits within the target area become visible, although they might remain unseen if hiding behind something. This includes the spirits of living people, which appear as the person normally does. If the person is invisible or otherwise changed from his normal shape, his normal appearance is superimposed on his current appearance.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +2 Sun, +2 Room)

### Perdo Mentem Guidelines

Emotions naturally reappear in a person, so spells that destroy them must have a continuing duration to ensure that they do not come back. Memories do not naturally return, so Momentary Duration spells remove them forever, although a person could be told what he had forgotten, or reconstruct the memory from things he does remember. A continuing spell would prevent a person from relearning that information, however.

| Level | Perdo Mentem Guideline |
| ----- | ---------------------- |
| 3 | • Remove a minor detail from a person's memory |
| 4 | • Remove an important detail from a person's memory<br>• Diminish a single mental capability in a person<br>• Reduce the intensity of all of a person's emotions |
| 5 | • Quell an emotion in a person |
| 10 | • Remove a minor or short memory from a person's mind<br>• Reduce all of a person's mental capabilities |
| 15 | • Remove a major or long memory from a person's mind<br>• Remove all emotions from a person<br>• Drive a person insane |
| 25 | • Leave a person a mindless husk |

### Perdo Mentem Spells

#### GENERAL

##### Lay to Rest the Haunting Spirit
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
If your spell Penetrates the resistance of a ghost or similar spirit, it loses a number of points from its Might equal to the level of this spell. If this reduces the spirit's Might to zero, it vanishes, apparently destroyed. Philosophers concur that the spirit goes to the afterlife, or is perhaps weakened to helplessness, but is not actually destroyed. Souls, after all, are immortal.<br>
(Base effect)

#### LEVEL 5

##### Tip of the Tongue
R: Eye, D: Diam, T: Ind<br>
Causes the target to forget one word of your choosing. The target cannot remember that word for the spell's duration, but afterwards he can come up with the word without assistance by making an Intelligence + Concentration stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If the target fails he may try again, but each additional roll adds +1 to the difficulty.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Eye, +1 Diam)

#### LEVEL 10

##### Trust of Childlike Faith
R: Eye, D: Diam, T: Ind<br>
The target loses judgment and believes almost any passable lie for the duration of the spell. An Intelligence stress roll against an Ease Factor of 6 is allowed to resist. Truly incredible lies allow easier resistance rolls.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +1 Diam)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Calm the Motion of the Heart
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Removes one emotion from the target until it appears again naturally. An angry person stops being angry, and a curious one stops being inquisitive. Many a magus finds this spell useful for keeping his apprentice's nose out of his immediate business.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice)

##### Enchantment of Detachment
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Calms and greatly lowers the intensity of the target's current emotions.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

##### Loss of But a Moment's Memory
R: Eye, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
Removes up to five continuous minutes from a target's memory, leaving a blank. You target the loss of memory to a specific event or time. With an Intelligence stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9, the target realizes that memories of a certain period are missing. This Ease Factor can change, depending on how important the missing memory is and what sort of circumstances surrounded the event. Careful introspection over a period of time can allow reconstruction of much of the memory, but some details are lost forever.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Eye)

#### LEVEL 25

##### Blessing of Childlike Bliss
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Reduces an adult mind to a child's level. The target solves problems, reasons, and expresses emotions as would a three-year-old. Magi affected cannot cast spells. At first, anyway, the target is likely to be happy at having lost a world of cares and troubles that are no longer imaginable.<br>
(Base 10, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

##### Passion's Lost Feeling
R: Eye, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
The target is unable to feel any sort of emotion and acts listlessly, without motivation or cares.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Eye, +1 Conc)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Black Whisper
R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Ind<br>
You whisper a magic sentence in the target's ear. It takes several seconds to speak the sentence, so an unwilling, able-bodied target can stop you. If you speak the whole sentence, the target must make a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 15 or go completely insane. You need not use your hands for this spell, but you must be able to speak.<br>
(Base 15, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +1 for not needing to gesture)

#### LEVEL 65

##### Poisoning the Will
R: Touch, D: Moon, T: Bound, Ritual<br>
You curse a place, be it a valley, town, city, or covenant. The curse gradually saps the will and vitality from the people there. They become less energetic, and slowly stop caring about the place, what happens there, other people, and finally themselves. Colors seem more drab and the days longer, and there is an all-pervading sense of boredom and lassitude. Strong-willed individuals and those with strong Personality Traits are less affected, but still suffer to an extent. All Personality Trait rolls while in the area suffer a -3modifier. This spell affects only those who are within the cursed area, including visitors to it. Those who leave the area are overwhelmed by the return of their vigor and sense of purpose.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Touch, +3 Moon, +4 Bound, +5 size)

### Rego Mentem Guidelines

The Rego Animal spells that deal with the mind may also be used as good guidelines for levels of Rego Mentem spells. Many changes to the mind are Rego effects, because the mind could naturally assume that state.

Rego Mentem botches can change the target's mental state in the wrong way, or change the state of mind of the caster.

| Level | Rego Mentem Guideline |
| ----- | --------------------- |
| General | • Ward against beings associated with Mentem from one supernatural realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with Might less than or equal to the level of the spell (Touch, Ring, Circle)<br>• Ward against spirits belonging to one realm (Divine, Faerie, Infernal, or Magic) with a Might less than or equal to the level of the spell (Touch, Ring, Circle) |
| 3 | • Make a subtle difference to the target's mental state |
| 4 | • Control a target's mental state (for example, awake, asleep, or confused) |
| 5 | • Control a natural emotion (for example, calm, fear); the target must feel the emotion before you can control it<br>• Control a disembodied spirit associated with Mentem, such as most ghosts<br>• Incline a person to a particular sort of response |
| 10 | • Control an unnatural emotion (for example, cultivate a person's feelings of bravery where he is usually cowardly)<br>• Imbue all of a person's responses with a particular emotion |
| 15 | • Control a person as long as you can see them<br>• Summon a disembodied spirit associated with Mentem, such as a ghost |
| 20 | • Give a person one complex command, which he tries to carry out to the best of his ability |
| 25 | • Completely control a person's mind and emotions |

### Rego Mentem Spells

#### GENERAL

##### Ring of Warding against Spirits
R: Touch, D: Ring, T: Circle<br>
Only ghosts and spirits with current Magic Might higher than the spell's level can enter the ring you create. At certain angles, the ring may be seen as an orange-hued dome. This spell does not affect ghosts or spirits associated with the other realms.<br>
(Base effect)

#### LEVEL 10

##### The Call to Slumber
R: Voice D: Mom. T: Ind.<br>
The target becomes sleepy and falls asleep within a few seconds.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice)

##### Snap of Awakening
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Ind<br>
When you snap your fingers you instantly awaken the target from sleep to alert consciousness. Does not work on someone unconscious from Fatiguelevel loss, wounds, or magic.<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice)

#### LEVEL 15

##### Confusion of the Numbed Will
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Confuses a person, who must make an Intelligence stress roll to take any direct action. A roll of 12+ ends the spell, while a roll of 9+ lets the character take the intended action, but the spell remains in effect. Any lower roll means the character is confused and takes some other type of action. When it is imperative for the victim to take an action, the storyguide should allow an appropriate modifier to the roll. While under this spell, a character always strikes last in combat and gets at least a -1 on all attacking and defending rolls.<br>
(Base 4, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 20

##### Aura of Rightful Authority
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
The target of the spell is strongly inclined to obey you, as if you were his natural superior.<br>
(Base 5, +1 Eve, +2 Sun)

##### Coerce the Spirits of the Night
R: Voice, D: Conc, T: Ind<br>
Makes a ghost obey you as long as you can coerce it with threats, such as a threat to defile its grave or to banish it to Hell. The more lurid and dramatic the threat, the more cooperative the ghost is. If the spell penetrates the ghost's Magic Resistance, roll Communication + Leadership to see how effective your threats are. The storyguide should always give a bonus or penalty that depends on the potency of the threat, and any roll other than a botch will compel at least minimal obedience.<br>
(Base 5, +2 Voice, +1 Conc)

##### Scent of Peaceful Slumber
R: Voice, D: Mom, T: Room<br>
Everyone in the room falls asleep over a few seconds, with the smell of lilacs in their nostrils<br>
(Base 4, +2 Voice, +2 Room)

#### LEVEL 30

##### Visions of the Infernal Terrors
R: Voice, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Causes everything the target sees to look and sound terrifying. The world looks basically the same, save that everything is hideously transformed somehow. The target must roll a stress die, adding his Stamina and adding or subtracting an appropriate Personality Trait to see what the effects are. The nature of the Personality Trait used determines how it affects the Stamina roll. A Trait like Brave makes you resistant to fear, while one like Cowardly reduces the result of your roll.

| Roll      | Result                                                                          |
| --------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0 or less | Scared to death (literally)                                                     |
| 1–5       | Incapacitated with fear, permanent –1 to Stamina                                |
| 6–9       | Incapacitated with fear                                                         |
| 10–15     | Flee, fight at –6 if cornered or obstructed                                     |
| 16+       | Carry on, -3 on all rolls                                                       |

(Base 10, +2 Voice, +2 Sun)

#### LEVEL 40

##### Enslave the Mortal Mind
R: Eye, D: Sun, T: Ind<br>
Enables you to completely control the loyalty, emotions, desires, interests, and activities of any person. People revert to normal when the spell ends, and may be extremely angry with the magus.<br>
(Base 25, +1 Eye, +2 Sun)

#### Incantation of Summoning the Dead
R: Arc, D: Conc, T: Ind, Ritual<br>
Calls up a person's ghost. You must be on the spot where the person died, or must have the corpse (either of these constitutes an Arcane Connection). Alternatively, you can summon any ghost that haunts the area you are in, if you know the ghost's full name, according to the Law of Names. Those buried by Church ceremony and those have who gone straight to heaven (that is, saints and crusaders, as opposed to the normal folk who must wait for a time before going on) are not available for summoning. This spell is a ritual because it can summon those who are beyond the mortal world, as long as they are not in heaven. If the ghost has Magic Resistance, you must penetrate that resistance in order to summon it.<br>
(Base 15, +4 Arc, +1 Conc)

##### The Shrouded Glen
R: Touch, D: Year, T: Bound, Ritual<br>
Enchants the Boundary in which the ritual is cast so that anyone moving through it is subtly diverted, effectively keeping some place within it from being discovered accidentally. Anyone not actively searching for the hidden place never finds it. Those actively searching can find the place by making a Perception stress roll against an Ease Factor of 12 (allowed once per day). If the surrounding terrain is more difficult to search than the average forest, the Ease Factor increases. Likewise, the Ease Factor drops if the terrain is more open than a forest, and completely open terrain is unsuitable for this spell. Once a searcher spots the hidden place, the spell does not prevent approach. Those who are present for the ritual are unaffected by the spell. This spell mimics the properties of many faerie forests.<br>
(Base 3, +1 Touch, +4 Year, +4 Bound)

#### LEVEL 55

#### Exchange of the Two Minds
R: Touch, D: Year, T: Group, Ritual<br>
This spell switches the minds (but not the souls) of two creatures. A new body greatly confuses those who are unprepared for the shock, and even those who are ready take a day to adjust completely. Magi who transport their own minds into younger, healthier bodies usually find that having a strong body entails having powerful passions that interfere with the clear thinking needed to pursue the magical Arts. Both people involved must make a Stamina stress roll against an Ease Factor of 3, rolled before the switch is made, to survive the transfer. If only one person fails the roll, that person dies and the spell fails. The other target is unaffected.<br>
(Base 20, +1 Touch, +4 Year, +2 Group)

---

