# Chapter 7: Hermetic Magic

In the eighth century the wizard Bonisagus developed a universal theory of magic and the Order of Hermes was born. The most immediate advantage of Hermetic magic was that it allowed wizards of diverse magical backgrounds to share their knowledge. Before Bonisagus' theory, the practice of magic had been highly individualized and therefore limited in scope. With the ability to share and accumulate knowledge, Hermetic magi gained an immense advantage over other wizards. This universal theory is not without its disadvantages, however. Detractors of the system believe that the strict regimentation of Hermetic magic robs truly brilliant magi of the chance to discover the modes of magic power that best suit them, and that it is truly helpful only to mediocre magi who need an exact system to guide them.

The Order of Hermes is only a part of the greater magical world. There exist non-Hermetic magi from European traditions, and from further afield. Be this as it may, the rules presented here cover Hermetic magic only. Hedge Magic Revised Edition, Rival Magic, The Cradle and the Crescent, Between Sand and Sea, Lands of the Nile, and the Realms of Power sourcebooks provide rules for many non-Hermetic traditions. Storyguides should also feel free to create non-Hermetic magic that governs monsters, wizards, and magic items that do not fit the paradigm set out in these rules, and thus keep magic a mystery even to those who think they know it all.

Hermetic magic is a highly useful but not entirely perfect theory. These rules reflect the things that magi expect to happen when they work with magic. While the expected usually occurs, the exact effects of magic can be influenced by countless factors, including such vagaries as the phase of the moon, the spiritual nature of the target, and the mental state of the caster. This allows storyguides to occasionally bend the rules and interpret magical effects imaginatively.

