## Spell Mastery

Hermetic magi can study Formulaic and Ritual spells that they know in more detail. This study leads to spell mastery. Magi can write books about spells they have mastered, to convey that knowledge to others. The Spell Mastery Ability can be learned from such books according to the normal rules for study (see page 378). Spell mastery Abilities are their own category, and Virtues that give characters access to other categories of Ability do not cover spell mastery Abilities. They may only be learned by characters who use Hermetic magic to cast spells.

For every possible Hermetic spell, there is a corresponding Ability. This Ability can be studied in the normal ways, and is called the spell's mastery ability. If a maga has a score of one or greater in a mastery ability, she is said to have mastered that spell.

**MASTERY ABILITY: Adds to casting score and subtracts from number of botch dice**

A maga adds her score in the mastery ability to her casting score whenever she casts that spell. In addition, she subtracts her mastery ability from the number of botch dice she has to roll if she rolls a zero. This may bring the number of dice down to zero. Mastered spells are always cast with a stress die, but if the maga is relaxed there are no botch dice, even in a non-Magic aura or when using vis, or when casting a Ritual spell.

### Mastered Spell Special Abilities

For every level in the Mastery Ability, the maga may also choose one special ability, which applies only to that mastered spell. Thus, a maga with a Mastery Score of two for a spell has two special abilities for that spell. A maga who has mastered more than one spell may have different special abilities with each of them.

#### Adaptive Casting

You may use your mastery score and all the special abilities associated with it whenever you cast a similar spell (as defined in the Laboratory chapter, page 260). If you have two or more mastery Abilities that apply to a single spell (because you have mastered two or more spells that are similar to the spell you are casting) you may only use the score of one Ability, and the special abilities taken for that mastery Ability. For example, if you have mastered *Demon's Eternal Oblivion* 30 with a score of 3, and the abilities Adaptive, Fast Casting, and Penetration, and *Demon's Eternal Oblivion* 25 with a score of 4 and the abilities Adaptive, Quiet Casting twice, and Still Casting, you must use the score of 3 if you want to use the Penetration ability, and the score of 4 if you want to use the Still Casting ability, and you cannot use the Penetration ability with the score of 4.

#### Ceremonial Casting

The maga may apply the rules for Ceremonial Casting (page 217) to casting this spell. This special ability may not be taken for Ritual spells, as they effectively use ceremonial casting to start with.

This special ability is not widely known in the Order, having originated with the Cult of Mercury, but it is no longer a secret of the cult. They know other special abilities that do remain secrets of the cult, however (see *The Mysteries*, *Revised Edition*, page 117).

#### Fast Casting

The maga may Fast Cast the mastered spell according to the rules for Fast Casting Spontaneous spells, on page 217. The maga still takes the –10 penalty to Casting Score and risks the extra botch dice, although the botch dice will be partially offset by her Mastery Ability. Any or all of your Mastery Abilities may be applied to the spell even when it is fast-cast, as these abilities are a fundamental part of your understanding of the spell. This special ability may not be taken for Ritual spells.

#### Imperturbable Casting

Add the caster's Mastery score to all Concentration rolls related to the spell. This helps her maintain spells of Concentration Duration amid the chaos of battle, or while casting another spell (see the Concentration Table, page 215).

#### Magic Resistance

Your Magic Resistance is doubled against the mastered spell, and against any spells or powers that count as similar. (See 'Similar Spells', page 260)

#### Multiple Casting

You can cast several copies of a single mastered spell so that it affects more people, objects, or areas (as applicable) than normal. A single target may also be affected more than once. You may cast a number of additional copies of the spell equal to or less than your Mastery Score.

All copies of the spell are cast simultaneously, and the action counts as a single casting for the purposes of Concentration and similar concerns. Each copy must be rolled for separately. If any of the copies fail outright, you lose the fatigue and the copy fails, though others may still take effect successfully. If you lose consciousness, any copies that were successful still run their course. If you lose consciousness and accumulate additional fatigue loss, each additional Fatigue level causes an extra hour of unconsciousness. Any special cost, beyond the standard casting requirements, must be paid for each copy of the spell.

Subtract the total number of discrete targets from any aiming rolls that are required. Even if all spells are directed at the same target, a –1 applies. The storyguide can further penalize or prohibit multiple casting that is especially difficult, such as casting two spells in opposite directions.

**AIMING: Penalty of one for every separate target, including the first**

This special ability may be taken for Ritual spells. The casting time is that for a single spell, but one pawn of appropriate vis per magnitude of the spell must be expended for each copy. The normal limit on pawns of vis expended (the maga's score in the Art) applies. Excess Fatigue levels lost convert to wounds, as normal for Ritual spells.

#### Obfuscated Casting

Magi cannot automatically identify the Form of the spell as the magus casts it. This makes it difficult for them to use fast-cast spells as a defense. They must always roll to determine the Form of the spell (see page 217) and must add the caster's Mastery score to the Ease Factor.

#### Penetration

The maga's Mastery Score is added to her Penetration Ability score for determining her Penetration Bonus (see page 219).

#### Precise Casting

Add +1 to all Finesse rolls the caster makes with the spell, including aiming rolls. Subtract one botch die from any Finesse rolls she makes using the spell, to a minimum of one botch die. A maga may take this ability multiple times for the same spell.

#### Quick Casting

Add +1 to the caster's Initiative Total when he casts the mastered spell. If he also has the Fast Casting special ability, add +1 to his Fast Casting Speed rolls (page 217) when he fast-casts the spell. This ability cannot be taken for Ritual spells. A magus may take this ability multiple times for the same spell.

#### Quiet Casting

The penalty for casting a spell quietly is reduced by five. This cannot grant a bonus, although using a booming voice gives the normal bonus. A maga may take this ability twice. If she does so, she can cast the spell silently without penalty. The range of a Voice Range spell is still based on the actual loudness of the maga's voice.

#### Rebuttal

This Mastery special ability may be applied to any Muto or Rego Vim spell designed to affect a spell or power used by another being (thus Wizard's Boost or Maintain the Demanding Spell are not eligible, but Mirror of Opposition [Form] is). The magus may add three times his Mastery score to the effective level of the Vim spell when determining whether or not it can change or control the foreign magic.

#### Still Casting

The maga can cast the spell without gestures, at no penalty. The normal bonus for using exaggerated gestures applies.

#### Unravelling

This Mastery special ability may be applied to any Perdo Vim spell designed to weaken or destroy magic. The magus may add three times his Mastery score to the effective level of the Perdo Vim spell when determining whether it can destroy the targeted effect. Thus a 20th level Wind of Mundane Silence cast by a character with this Mastery special ability and a score of 3 can negate the effects of a spell if he can double the spell's level on (29 + stress die) rather than (20 + stress die).

### Books on Spell Mastery

A book on spell Mastery can be studied by anyone who knows the spell that the book is about. For the purposes of spell Mastery, two spells are the same if they have the same Arts, level, Range, Duration, Target, and effect; essentially, if the game rule versions of the two spells are identical. Different wizard's sigils are not a problem.

Because magi reinvent spells for themselves, rather than actually learning another magus's version, a magus studying spell Mastery from a book may learn any special ability, not just the abilities known by the original author. The book provides insight into the structure of the spell, but that insight may differ slightly between the author's and reader's versions of the spells.

