## The Gift

The capacity to work magic is known as The Gift among Hermetic magi. Only people with The Gift can be taught Hermetic magic, but not all of them learn it. Many Hermetic magi say that people with minor mystical abilities have a partial Gift, but it is not clear that the source of their power is the same as that of magi. People with The Gift may be taught non-Hermetic magic instead, but it is almost impossible for one person to learn two kinds of magic. (See page 383 for the rules for this.)

The Gift is very rare, appearing in perhaps one person in a few thousand. Magi have many theories as to the cause of The Gift, but none of these are generally accepted.

The Gift has a strong emotional effect on those around the Gifted person, making them suspicious and mistrustful of the Gifted individual, inspiring envy. As a result, social interactions are very difficult for the Gifted. Some Hermetic magi have the Gentle Gift (a Virtue, see page 82), which does not affect people in this way, while others have the Blatant Gift (a Flaw, see page 120), which has much more intense effects. The Gift also bothers mundane animals, which avoid the Gifted individual as far as possible. The Gift only affects those in the presence of the Gifted individual. Letters from a Gifted individual do not have this effect, nor does a messenger from such an individual, unless the messenger himself has The Gift.

When roleplaying a character dealing with a maga, have him act as though she has a wellestablished reputation for dishonesty and unreliability, and for undeserved privilege of whatever sort is most important to him. Thus, a merchant acts as if he believes that a maga is wealthy through cheating people, while a lord acts as if he believes that the maga is a treacherous vassal who retains her position through bribery or similar. If the maga tries to overcome this reaction through negotiation, she suffers a -3 penalty to any die rolls she must make. Someone without The Gift negotiating on her behalf does not suffer the penalty, but must deal with the mistrust inspired by The Gift. If the maga manages to convince or coerce someone into interacting with her, she suffers the -3 penalty to all rolls and totals based on social interaction, including training, whether the maga is the trainer or the trainee.

The Blatant Gift has a more intense effect. Treat the Blatantly Gifted character as having a well-established reputation for dishonesty and treachery of a dangerous kind, as well as for the possession of ill-gotten gains. People interacting with a Blatantly Gifted maga are extremely wary and rather hostile. Animals treat her as a threat to be driven away from their territory. If the maga tries to overcome this reaction through negotiation, she suffers a –6 penalty to any die rolls she must make. An unGifted individual negotiating on her behalf suffers no penalty, but must overcome the hostility. If a maga with Blatant Gift interacts with someone, she suffers the -6 penalty to all social rolls and totals, as for the normal Gift.

Note that those interacting with Gifted people do not actually think that they have a bad reputation; that is merely an analogy to help you to work out how they would react.

The Gift only has its effects if the maga comes to the attention of someone, just like a reputation. If a Gifted maga dresses unostentatiously, keeps to the middle of the group, does not appear to be the leader, and doesn't talk to anyone, then the group should be able to travel without suffering from people's reactions to The Gift, as long as the maga behaves herself. The Blatant Gift makes this a lot harder; these precautions reduce people's reactions to those inspired by the normal Gift.

People do not get used to The Gift, even if they have lived with magi all their lives. They can, however, get used to individuals with The Gift, just as long association overrides the effects of reputation. The mundane members of a covenant can be assumed to be used to the resident magi, and to react to them as appropriate to their actual behavior (see page 186, in the Covenant chapter, for rules for this).

Nevertheless, they will be suspicious of visiting magi.

People who have dealt with a lot of different Gifted individuals do become able to recognize the effect of The Gift for what it is. They still feel the suspicion and envy, but they can act politely anyway. Mundane Redcaps have sufficient experience to recognize The Gift, and a mundane given the job of greeting all visitors to a covenant is likely to get it over the course of a decade or so. Most covenfolk, however, merely become accustomed to 'their' magi.

The Parma Magica blocks these effects of The Gift entirely. A maga with a Parma Magica is not bothered by the Gifts of other magi, although other people are still bothered by her Gift. This effect may have been as valuable as Magic Resistance in aiding the foundation of the Order.

Animals also react badly to people with The Gift. In their case, the reaction tends to be a combination of fear and hostility, with much more hostility if the magus has the Blatant Gift. Gifted characters cannot ride horses without magical aid, as the horse tries to throw them off as quickly as possible. Similarly, they can never train dogs to recognize them as friends.

Creatures belonging to one of the four supernatural realms may have different reactions to the Gifted. Some behave like mundane animals, others like mundane humans, while some appear completely unaffected by The Gift. Demons, in particular, do not seem to be bothered by The Gift, but that may just be because they envy every human being anyway.

### First Impressions

A group of characters who appear to be ordinary travelers (rather than an armed band) seek shelter in:

#### A Typical Village

*Gentle (or no) Gift:* The villagers are cautious, but may offer the characters shelter in their homes if treated well. If someone has a separate barn, the characters are probably allowed to sleep there.

*Gift:* The villagers refuse to let the characters into their homes or property, and bar the doors and keep a watch all night if they camp on common ground.

*Blatant Gift:* The villagers tell the characters to get out of the village, and attempt to drive them off if they do not leave voluntarily. They keep some sort of watch for the next few days to make sure that the characters do not return.

#### An Inn

*Gentle (or no) Gift:* Visitors are welcomed if there is space, and the innkeeper can be bargained down from his initial price. Other guests eagerly share news with the characters, exchanging tales of where they have come from for the characters' stories.

*Gift:* The innkeeper treats the characters coldly. He sets his prices very high, and will not be bargained down. Other guests ignore the characters as much as possible, and keep a careful eye on them.

*Blatant Gift:* The innkeeper refuses admittance, and threatens to call the watch if the characters do not move along.

#### A Monastery

*Gentle (or no) Gift:* The characters are welcomed, housed in the guest quarters, and fed at the common table with any other travelers. They are encouraged to attend services, and other travelers talk as if at an inn. The characters may stay for two or three nights before the monks start to drop hints that they should move on.

*Gift:* The characters are welcomed, and housed somewhere isolated in the monastic complex. They are fed at the common table, but one or two monks are always around, keeping an eye on them. The other travelers do not talk to them. The monks start to drop hints that they should move on after one night.

*Blatant Gift:* The characters are housed in a building outside the monastery walls, and their food is brought to them there. They are watched by at least one monk and enough lay brothers to deal with mundane trouble at all times. If they ask to attend the service, they are escorted to and from the church and watched at all times. They are strongly encouraged to leave, and are no longer fed, after the first night.

#### A Covenant

These descriptions assume that the visitors announce themselves as Hermetic magi, and are not known to be hostile. They also assume that the guard room is outside the Aegis of the Hearth.

*Gentle Gift:* The characters are asked into the guard room while the magi are informed of their arrival. The guards chat while they are waiting.

*Gift:* The characters are asked inside while the magi are informed, but the guards do not talk much, and keep a careful eye on all of them.

*Blatant Gift:* The characters are made to wait outside while someone brings the magi. The gates are made secure, and all the guards are on high alert.

### Established Relationships

A group including at least one magus arrives somewhere where the magus has visited many times before.

#### An Inn

The characters return to an inn where they have always been polite, tipped generously, and never caused trouble.

*Gentle Gift:* The innkeeper welcomes them enthusiastically, shows them to the best table in the house, and clears a good room for them to stay in if they want. If there are regulars at the inn, they are happy to see the characters again.

*Gift:* The innkeeper welcomes them enthusiastically, and shows them to a nice table slightly isolated from the rest of the room, to avoid upsetting the other customers. He clears a good room for them to stay in, and sees to most of the service personally if he has new staff. He tries to make small-talk with the magus, but clearly prefers talking to the companions.

*Blatant Gift:* The innkeeper hurries to meet them at the door, welcomes them politely, and quickly ushers them to a private room so that they don't disturb the other guests. He serves them personally, but while he is polite to the magus, he clearly tries to have as little to do with him as possible. (This assumes that the Blatant Gifted magus kept a very low profile on earlier visits, so that they were allowed in.)

#### A Monastery

The characters return to a monastery where they have always been polite, at least apparently pious, never caused trouble, and have donated generously (but not so spectacularly as to be viewed as potential patrons). The descriptions assume that there are no women in the party, and that the monastery can cope with bending the normal rules slightly.

*Gentle Gift:* The characters are quickly recognized, greeted warmly, and may even be invited to dine with the abbot occasionally. If their normal visits are brief, they are allowed to stay for some time before anything is said, and even then the monks are concerned as to their reasons for the long stay rather than keen to move them on.

*Gift:* The characters are housed away from the main guest quarters, and they take their meals with the monks, who know them, rather than the other travelers, who don't. At least some of the monks are just as eager to talk to the magus as to the other members of the group.

*Blatant Gift:* The characters are kept waiting at the gate while a senior monk is sent for. They are housed away from the main guest quarters, and fed there, although one or two of the monks probably join them, both out of courtesy and to hear the news. The monks clear a side chapel so that the characters can attend Mass there, rather than being in the main body of the church. The characters are not watched, although the magus with the Blatant Gift is expected to keep to himself as much as possible (and, to get to this point, he must have done so in the past).

