## Sigils

Every Hermetic maga has a 'wizard's sigil'. All the spells that she casts have something in common, which makes it clear to those who know her that she was the caster. The sigil also appears in the effects of enchanted devices created by the maga.

Some sigils affect the environment where the spell is cast. For example, a maga might have the scent of orange blossom as her sigil. In that case, whenever she casts a spell there is a smell of orange blossom in the area. The spell has its effect as normal. Another maga's sigil might make everyone nearby feel briefly chilled.

Other sigils affect the maga herself. For example, a sigil might make the maga's hair stand on end and flash with sparks, or make her eyes glow briefly.

Finally, some sigils affect the actual products of the spell. A maga's sigil might mean that all her spell effects involve whiteness in some way, whether white fire from Creo Ignem, or a white patch on animals affected by Muto Animal.

Whatever the form of the sigil, it never requires requisites, as it is part of the maga's magic. Accordingly, it should never be something useful, nor something that imposes major problems. It is a bit of flavor for the caster, nothing more.

All kinds of sigil leave some traces behind in the magic, and skilled Hermetic investigators can use this sigil to find out who cast a spell.

Hermetic magi also have a voting sigil, a small physical object which identifies them and is used to vote at Tribunal. This often resembles the casting sigil in some way, but need not.

