## Ex Miscellanea Traditions

House Ex Miscellanea is not at all unified, consisting of many different magical traditions. A large number are described in Houses of Hermes: Societates, including the Columbae, who brought the techniques of warding into Hermetic magic, and the Cult of Orpheus, which may be the heir to an ancient Greek mystery cult. This section provides details of three relatively simple traditions that you may choose for your maga, or you may create your own following the guidelines in the Characters chapter.

### Beast Masters

This tradition commands magic which Hermetic Theory finds very hard: the summoning and control of wild creatures. Every apprentice of this tradition was abandoned by his master in areas of wilderness at a very young age, where he had to fend for himself. During this time he developed a particular affinity for a specific group of animals, which forever shapes his magic. Due to this unusual training, all Beast Masters also have the Virtues of Animal Ken and a Minor Magical Focus with a specific group of animals. They are never taught how to turn into animal form, or how to harm animals, which results in the Incompatible Arts Flaw (MuCo & PeAn). They must take at least one more Flaw to balance their Virtues, and then have only 8 points of Flaws available to them to buy another 8 points of Virtues.

*Major Non-Hermetic Virtue:* Summon Animals
*Minor Hermetic Virtue:* Inoffensive to Animals
*Major Hermetic Flaw:* Study Requirement
*Required Virtues and Flaws:* Animal Ken, Minor Magical Focus; Incompatible Arts.

#### Summon Animals

This Ability allows the character to summon mundane animals from potentially long distances away. To use this Ability, the character must be capable of making an audible call to the creatures he wishes to summon, and must be within one day's journey of a habitat where the required species are found. The number of animals which respond to his summons is determined by the score in the character's Ability, see the table below. He must then make a Communication + Summon Animals roll against an Ease Factor of 9. If successful, the animals arrive within 1 hour of the character making the call, although exceeding the Ease Factor by 3 makes them come in 2 minutes, and exceeding it by 6 summons them in a single round.

The character cannot directly communicate with the animals unless he has another Ability which allows him to do so (such as Animal Ken), and they depart naturally, as determined by the storyguide. Even if the character lacks the ability to communicate with the animals, they act as if friendly towards him, and if naturally aggressive, may fight to defend him.

*Specialties:* a particular type of animal (Supernatural)

| Ability<br>Score | Number of Animals Arriving                                                                                     |
| ---------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1                | 1 animal of Size -2, or equivalent mass (2 of Size -3, 5 of Size -4, 10 of Size -5, 20 of Size -6, etc.)       |
| 2                | 2 animals of Size -2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size -1, 5 of Size -3, 10 of Size -4, 20 of Size -5, etc.)      |
| 3                | 5 animals of Size -2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size 0, 2 of Size -1, 10 of Size -3, 20 of Size -4, etc.)       |
| 4                | 10 animals of Size -2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size +1, 2 of Size 0, 5 of Size -1, 20 of Size -3, etc.)       |
| 5                | 20 animals of Size –2, or equivalent mass (1 of Size +2, 2 of Size +1, 5 of Size 0, 10 of Size –1, etc.)       |

> #### Story Seed: Animal Experimentation
>
> This Ability can call animals quicker than they could possibly travel under their own speed, and therefore breaks the Limit of Arcane Connection. A magus interested in pursuing breakthroughs in Magic Theory might seek out a character with this Ability.

### The Nemthengacha

The Nemthengacha (singular: Nemthenga) are a sect of Ex Miscellanea magi who have the ability to create animosity and dissent in their listeners. Their origins are clouded. Some claim the Irish poet/demigod Bricriu mac Carbada is the progenitor of the line, while others say that the Welsh hero Efnisien is the first of the breed. Asserting an even more grandiose foundation, some Ex Miscellanea say that their tradition descends from Loki, the multi-faceted and often malevolent Norse god. It is true that this tradition is only found in Celtic and Scandinavian sorcerers.

Nemthengacha, also known as "poisontongues", "bitter-tongues", or "deceivers", were more frequent before the advent of Christianity. In pre-Christian society, Nemthengacha held a devastating reputation. In a society where loyalty and family bonds are everything, a Nemthenga's ability to turn one man against his allies was devastating. People avoided Nemthengacha, but since many lived among the tribe, they could not be entirely ignored and were placated as best as the tribe could manage. While no more anticlerical than any other Ex Miscellanea tradition, they suffered severely from interactions with Christian missionaries. Perhaps it was due to their overt presence. The unGifted Nemthengacha did not need to hide from their tribesmen, and several held prominent social positions as shamans, wise men, and king's champions. Their tradition ebbed, and practitioners retreated to remote parts of their lands.

In the thirteenth century, Gifted Nemthengacha have been systematically accepted into the Order of Hermes, although some unGifted Nemthengacha still remain, living in the far hinterlands of Mythic Europe. Though stretched, they never severed their connections to their clans, so that many are still related to members of a local tribe or kin group. Nor have they abandoned their connection to royal society, with many Nemthengacha still serving their local king.

#### Powers

Like every Ex Miscellanea character, a magus of the Nemthengacha tradition receives a free Major non-Hermetic Virtue, a compulsory Major Flaw, and a free Minor Hermetic Virtue. The Major Non-Hermetic Virtue is Embitterment, a new Major Supernatural Ability. Embitterment is similar to Entrancement (page 164), but the effects are more specific and potent. Due to this focus, Nemthengacha find it difficult to control other emotions in a target's mind, which spills over into other aspects of Hermetic magic. Each has the Major Hermetic Flaw: Deficient Technique Rego. Since Embitterment depends solely on the Nemthenga's voice, his magic is less dependent on gestures than other Hermetic magi. He receives the Minor Hermetic Virtue: Subtle Magic, at no cost.

**Major Non-Hermetic Virtue:** Embitterment

**Minor Hermetic Virtue:** Subtle Magic

**Major Hermetic Flaw:** Deficient Technique (Rego)

#### Embitterment

Embitterment is a Major Supernatural Ability that allows the speaker to make a listener hostile to a target of the speaker's choice. This hostility can range from simple antagonism to murder. Through simple conversation, the speaker makes the listener dislike, resent, or hate a person formerly considered a friend. The conversation does not have to be long; a round is time enough for this effect to take place.

To embitter a target, the player states the exact specifications of how the target will act against the intended victim. He then rolls the character's Communication + Embitterment + a stress die and compares it to a variable Ease Factor, which depends on the level of aggression he wishes to instill, and the level of loyalty possessed between the target and the former ally. Since this is a Supernatural Ability, the roll always uses a stress die. The Embitterment power of the Nemthengacha is a Magic power for purposes of determining its interaction with the other realms of power; it seems likely that an Infernal version also exists.

**EMBITTERMENT ROLL: Communication + Embitterment + Stress Die**

Consult the following chart to determine the Ease Factor.


| Ease<br>Factor | Desired Effect                                                     |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| 6              | Turn a man against his neighbor, business partner, or co-worker    |
| 9              | Turn a man against his wife, friend, or cousin (distant kin)       |
| 12             | Turn a man against his kin (father, brother, and nuclear family)   |
| 15             | Turn a man against his lord                                        |
| 18             | Turn a man against his king                                        |

The base effect makes the victim dislike the target, leading to slander, resentment, and a refusal to cooperate with him. Increasing this animosity to hatred adds +3 to the Ease Factor. Victims made to hate the indicated target desire to do some kind of harm to him, but stop short of killing the person. Such a person would destroy someone's fields, ruin a business opportunity, wreck their marriage, or perhaps wound them in a duel. Increasing hatred to loathing adds another +3 to the Ease Factor (+6 in total), and makes the victim try to slay the intended target. For example, the Ease Factor is 18 to embitter a man to commit patricide (base 12 + 6), and 24 to commit regicide (base 18 + 6).

The Range of embitterment is Voice and the Target is always Individual. The Duration is Sun, although this can be increased to Moon by increasing Ease Factor by +3. Because embitterment acts through conversation, the caster must speak a language that the target comprehends.

A character so embittered cannot disobey the command. He is not allowed a Loyalty roll to see if he can ignore the emotional summons, or other quibbling based on the character's Personality Traits. Hermetic magic can cancel the embitterment with a Perdo Vim spell. Rego Mentem magic can replace the feelings of animosity with feelings of loyalty or compassion, Creo Mentem can create feelings of loyalty that supersede the effect, and Perdo Mentem could erase the feelings of animosity. To determine how powerful a Hermetic spell needs to be, consider the effective level of the embitterment to be equal to the Nemthenga's score in Embitterment times five.

### Tempestaria (Weather Witch)

This tradition figures prominently in lands occupied by the Saxons, including their homeland in northern Germany as well as in England and Denmark. Weather magic is well-integrated into Hermetic Magic, and the art of Auram is populated with highly useful spells. The hedge witches known as Tempestariae are experts in these very magics. There are weather-witches who can summon rain which can last for days, or who cause no rain to fall at all for an entire season. The fogs summoned by a tempestaria from the sea have bound ships into the harbors all along an entire coastline. The most common type of tempestaria, however, is one who can bind the wind to her service. They require simple improvised tools which have sympathetic relationships to their spells – feathers for snow magic, drums for thunder magic, scattered sand for rain magic, and so forth.

*Major Non-Hermetic Virtue:* Whistle Up The Wind (or similar Ability)

*Minor Hermetic Virtue:* Affinity with Auram

*Major Hermetic Flaw:* Necessary Condition (tools for their magic to work)

#### Whistle Up The Wind

A character with this Ability is able to create a wind, duplicating the effects of any wind-based Creo Auram spell at Range Voice, Target Individual; similar Supernatural Abilities exist for other weather phenomena. To invoke the wind, the character literally has to whistle, and makes a Stamina + Whistle Up The Wind roll, against the Ease Factor listed in the table below. If successful, the wind immediately starts to blow as commanded by the character. It will continue to blow in the same manner even if the character stops whistling. A character who summons a wind at a particular strength can change that wind to another type with a similar strength (such as from Circling Winds of Protection to Broom of the Winds), diminish it to a weaker effect (such as Chamber of Spring Breezes), or end it entirely. Each of these changes requires a Communication + Music roll, using the Ease Factors for Maintaining Concentration on a spell (page 215). Whistling a new tune in this manner cannot increase the strength of a wind, or return a diminished wind to its former intensity; instead the character must make a new Whistle Up The Wind roll. All effects of this Ability diminish to the next lowest level of strength once every 24 hours, when the sun sets, until they dwindle to nothing.


| Easer<br>Factor | Strength of Wind                                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 6               | Light breeze, strong enough to clear a stench from a room     |
| 9               | Moderate wind, strong enough to affect the accuracy of arrows |
| 12              | Strong wind, powerful enough to propel a sailing ship         |
| 15              | Gale force wind, strong enough to knock someone over          |
| 18              | Hurricane force wind, strong enough to uproot trees           |

*Specialties:* at sea, in mountains, during the winter (Supernatural)

---

> Torches flicker in our covenant’s shadowed corridors, as my quick footsteps navigate the labyrinthine passages. The iron-clad door creaks on worn hinges, opening to a dimly lit chamber cluttered with the amassed learning of centuries. My master pores over a shimmering crystal sphere, his face illuminated by the eerie glow of the arcane, his brow furrowed in concentration as he unlocks its long-forgotten secrets. My arrival is an intrusion into his sanctum, but a welcome one. My arms are laden with stacks of ancient tomes, their leather bindings embossed with symbols of power, ready to aid in his quest for knowledge.

