## Dangers

Despite the Order's attempts to regulate it and make it a science, magic remains an art. No matter how skilled a practitioner you are, and no matter what precautions you take (short of not using magic at all), your magic will sometimes get out of your control. From the danger of casting a spell improperly to the danger of the enigmatic Wizard's Twilight, magic is filled with hazards.

### Botches

The most common danger magi face when performing magic is a botch. The results of a given spell cast under stress are not entirely predictable, and a botch on a spell roll means that the maga has made a mistake that, rather than just causing her spell to fail, causes her spell to produce different effects than she intended. Though the effects of botches can vary widely, they are almost universally detrimental. The storyguide should use his imagination when determining botches.

As noted above (page 213), a botch automatically gives a maga a Casting Total of zero. However, this does not mean that nothing happens; in general, the spell still goes off. The magic is beyond the maga's control; almost anything could happen. More powerful spells should have more powerful botch results, in general, but as usual the number of botch dice that come up zero should determine just how badly things have gone wrong.

Magi gain one Warping Point for every zero that comes up on the botch dice when casting a spell. (This does not include the original zero that meant the botch dice had to be rolled. If the roll does not botch, the magus gains no Warping Points.) If a magus gains two or more Warping Points from a single spell botch, he may enter Wizard's Twilight (see below).

#### Sources of Botch Dice
 
When casting a spell under stress, you start with one botch die, as normal. The storyguide can increase this for all the normal reasons, such as distractions or a difficult magical environment, but there are several standard modifiers to the number of botch dice for spell casting.
 
**Using vis while casting:** +1 botch die per pawn of vis used

**Casting in a supernatural aura other than Magic:** +1 botch die per level of the aura, doubled if in a regio

**Fast Casting:** +2 botch dice

**Golden Cord to a familiar:** -1 botch die per level

**Spell Mastery:** -1 botch die per level

Note that there are a number of Virtues and Flaws that can modify both the number of botch dice, and what they mean. For example, the Faerie Magic Virtue attunes Merinita magi to Faerie auras, so that they do not gain additional botch dice in them.

If the maga is relaxed while casting a Formulaic spell, then there are no botch dice, no matter how many the circumstances would normally add. Note that it is not possible to be relaxed while casting a fatiguing Spontaneous spell, as the process itself is stressful. Ritual spells also require botch dice in all circumstances, unless the maga has mastered them.

#### Botch Suggestions

**Attract unwanted attention:** The attention of someone or something, perhaps the target of your spell, is drawn to you.

**Caster addled:** You are rendered insane, confused, or demented. You acquire the Flaw Simple-Minded for an indefinite duration.

**Caster overwhelmed:** You are overwhelmed by your own magic. Make a Stamina stress roll of 6+ or be knocked unconscious.

**Connection with target:** Your target becomes aware of your investigations, and may learn something about you through the arcane link that is temporarily established.

**Debilitating**: The spell pushes the target too hard and does permanent damage: for example, a Rego Animal spell might forever leave a beast without its natural instincts and urges.

**Flawed creation:** A creation is heavily flawed, though the flaw may not be obvious until the creation is expected to serve the function it was created for.

**Incomplete or improper effect:** For example, a spell intended to transform you into a wolf might only transform your head and hands.

**Out of control:** The spell creates or calls forth something beyond the caster's ability to control.

**Related but unwanted effect:** For example, a spell intended to transform you into a wolf might turn you into another animal.

**Reverse** effect: The spell does exactly the opposite of what is intended.

**Spell affects caster:** You, instead of the intended target, are affected.

**Too powerful:** The spell does more than it should and thereby causes problems.

**Undying spell**: The spell does not end at the normal time, and it proves resistant to being dispelled.

**Wrong target:** Pick a new one at random.

### Warping

Warping affects everyone, not just Hermetic magi, so it is described in the Long Term Events chapter, page 389. Note that magi gain one Warping Point for every zero on the botch dice when they botch a spell.

### Wizard's Twilight

Wizard's Twilight is unique to Hermetic magic. Most magical traditions have a unique reaction to Warping, and Wizard's Twilight is the reaction of magi trained in the Hermetic tradition.

#### Entering Twilight

Whenever a maga gains two or more Warping Points from a single event, rather than from prolonged exposure, she must add them to her current total, possibly increasing her Warping Score, and then roll to avoid Twilight.

**TWILIGHT AVOIDANCE: Stamina + Concentration + Vim Form Bonus + stress die vs. Warping Score + Number of Warping Points gained + Enigmatic Wisdom + local aura + stress die (no botch)**

If the roll succeeds, the maga spends two minutes (one Diameter) bringing her magic under control, but there are no further effects. If the roll fails, the maga enters Wizard's Twilight. If the maga botches, she enters Twilight and cannot comprehend the experience.

A maga may choose not to resist Twilight, in which case she makes no roll and automatically enters Twilight. In some situations, such as combat, taking two minutes to control the magic may be very dangerous, and in such cases a maga may wish to enter Twilight in the hope of comprehending it and thus getting through the experience more quickly.

#### Comprehending Twilight

A maga within Twilight must comprehend her surroundings in order to get out.

**TWILIGHT COMPREHENSION: Intelligence + Enigmatic Wisdom + stress die vs. Warping Score + stress die**

**BOTCH DICE: 1 + 1 per Warping Point gained to trigger the Twilight**

The time that a maga feels that she spends in Twilight is completely independent of time passing in the real world. The time that passes in the real world depends on the maga's Warping Score, and the success of her Twilight Comprehension roll.

| Warping Score    | Base Time in Twilight                    |
| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------- |
| 1                | Diameter (2 minutes)                     |
| 2                | Two Hours                                |
| 3                | Sun                                      |
| 4                | Day (24 hours)                           |
| 5                | Moon                                     |
| 6                | Season                                   |
| 7                | Year                                     |
| 8                | Seven Years                              |
| 9                | Seven plus a Stress Die Years (no botch) |
| 10+              | Eternal: Final Twilight                  |

If the comprehension roll botches, the time the maga spends in Twilight increases by one step on the table for each zero rolled, and she suffers a negative effect from the experience.

If the comprehension roll fails, the maga spends the base time in Twilight, and suffers a bad effect from the experience.

If the Twilight side of the comprehension roll botches (same botch dice as the maga's side), the maga need only beat a total of zero to comprehend the Twilight. The botch has no other effect. This means that, all else being equal, a maga is slightly more likely to comprehend a Twilight caused by gaining a lot of Warping Points.

If the comprehension roll succeeds, subtract the maga's Enigmatic Wisdom score from the result, and compare that total (that is, the maga's Intelligence plus the stress die result) to the Twilight's result.

**TWILIGHT TIME: Intelligence + stress die vs. Warping Score + stress die**

Note: The die rolls are the rolls already made to comprehend the Twilight

If the two match exactly, or the maga's score is lower, the maga spends the base time in Twilight. For every additional point by which the maga's score exceeds the Twilight result, move one step shorter on the duration table. For example, if a maga with a Warping score of 7 makes her comprehension roll by three points, the Twilight lasts a day. If this lowers the duration below Diameter, the whole Twilight lasts a mere moment in the real world.

#### During Twilight

The experiences of magae in Twilight vary enormously. Some experience a dreamlike copy of the real world. Others encounter strange creatures, or copies of themselves, or feel an infinite benevolence watching over the universe, or an infinite malevolence likewise. These may be played out if desired.

The effects are equally varied in the outside world. The simplest effect is that the maga falls unconscious until she emerges from the Twilight. This is most common with low Warping scores. Magae with moderate Warping Scores often seem to resist Twilight, but act without real initiative. They are easily led while in this state, and have no memory of their actions when the Twilight finishes. Magae with high Warping Scores sometimes disappear physically into the Twilight Void. If they do so, their bodies reappear in the same place, near enough, when they come out of Twilight.

If the maga's body remains in the real world while she is in Twilight, it is completely immune to magic, mundane damage, aging, and hunger. In many ways it seems to be outside the world although it still appears within it. A maga's body is also unable to perform magic while she is in Twilight.

While these are the most common effects, others have been observed. Bjornaer often take the form of their heartbeasts, and Flambeau magi have been known to turn into large fires which burn without fuel.

#### Effects of Twilight

Every Twilight experience marks the maga. The strength of the mark is random. Roll a simple die. The maga gains that many Warping Points, in addition to the points that triggered the Twilight.

If the maga comprehended the Twilight, the effects are good.

**Twilight Scar:** Something minor and magical, and also neutral or beneficial. For example, the area around the maga always smells faintly and pleasantly of roses, the maga's eyes glitter with many colors, the maga walks a fraction of an inch above any surface. In the case of a maga who wants to keep her magic inconspicuous, the effect may not be obviously magical: people around her become slightly more cheerful, insects don't bite her, and so on.

In addition, the storyguide should pick one of the following effects:

**Increased Knowledge:** A number of experience points in an Art, Magic Theory, or Enigmatic Wisdom, equal to twice the number of Warping Points gained.

**New Hermetic or Supernatural Virtue:** Minor (if between 7 and 10 Warping Points, inclusive), or major (if more than ten Warping Points). Virtues cannot be gained if the maga gains fewer than seven Warping Points.

**New Spell:** The maga knows a new Formulaic or Ritual spell, with a magnitude equal to the number of Warping Points gained. This spell is chosen by the storyguide, and the maga need not be able to cast it. She may write a Lab Text about it as normal.

If the maga failed to comprehend the Twilight, the effects are bad.

**Twilight Scar:** Something minor, magical, and annoying. For example, the area around the maga smells faintly of sulfur, the maga's touch stains skin black (it washes off, with effort), the maga's footprints create myriads of fine cracks in any surface. At the storyguide's discretion, a maga who tries to keep her magic inconspicuous might get a scar she can hide. For example, the smell of iron makes her feel nauseous, or insects always bite her given the chance.

In addition, the storyguide should pick one of the following effects:

**Lost Knowledge:** Lose two experience points for every Warping Point gained in an Art, Magic Theory, or Enigmatic Wisdom. This cannot reduce the score below zero.

**New Hermetic or Supernatural Flaw:** Minor (if between 7 and 10 Warping Points, inclusive) or major (if 10 Warping Points or above). The maga can only gain a Flaw if she gains at least seven Warping Points.

**Lost Spells:** The maga loses the knowledge of spells, chosen by the storyguide, with magnitudes totaling the number of Warping Points gained.

> #### Twilight Example
>
> Darius of Flambeau, played by Niall, botches a spell while hunting a Renounced magus. There are two zeroes on the botch dice, so he gains 2 Warping Points, and must check for Twilight. Darius has a Warping Score of 6, and his enemy is not immediately present, so he chooses to try to resist the Twilight.
> 
> As a member of House Flambeau, Darius does not have an Enigmatic Wisdom score, so that doesn't affect anything.
>
> Darius has a Stamina of 0, Concentration 3, and a Vim bonus of 2. He thus gets +5 to his roll to resist the Twilight, and Niall rolls a six on the stress die, for a total of 11. Not bad, but not great.
> 
> The Ease Factor is 6 (for his Warping Score) +2 (the number of points gained) + 4 (for the local Faerie aura, a major contributor to the botch in the first place), or 12 + a stress die, no botch. The storyguide doesn't bother rolling; even if he rolls a zero Darius has failed to resist and will enter Twilight.
> 
> When it comes to comprehending the Twilight, Darius gets his Intelligence, +3, plus a stress die.
>
> The Twilight has a base of 6, Darius's Warping Score, plus a stress die. Niall rolls a 7, but the storyguide rolls a 5. Darius has a total of 10, and the Twilight has a total of 11. Darius has failed to comprehend it.
> 
> The comprehension roll simply failed, so Darius spends the base time in Twilight, and has a bad experience. At a Warping Score of 6, the base time is one season.
> 
> The storyguide rules that Darius feels his magic destroying his body and mind from the inside. He can't tell how long it takes, although he is fully aware of every step of the process, and as the last trace of his awareness is about to vanish, he comes out of the Twilight. To the outside world, Darius's body appeared to dry up and decay to dust over the course of a few seconds. At the end of a season, Darius reappears, and finds that two of the covenant grogs have been camping here to see whether he was coming back from Twilight.
>
> The simple die for additional Warping Points is a one, so Darius gains three Warping Points in total. He loses six experience points in Corpus, two for each of the three Warping Points he gained. He didn't gain enough Warping Points to gain a Flaw. He also gains a Twilight Scar, and the storyguide rules that any dead meat Darius is touching looks, tastes, and smells rotten, although the effect passes when he releases it, and the meat is actually perfectly good. It looks like Darius will be becoming a vegetarian.

### Certamen

Certamen (Care-TAH-men, Latin for "duel") is the ceremony by which two magi conduct a magical duel. It serves as a nonlethal way for one magus to establish dominance and precedence over another, and has formal restrictions to keep it from disrupting the unity of the Order.

The most important is that certamen cannot be used to over-rule a Tribunal, require a violation of the Code, or require a magus to overlook a violation of the Code. Beyond that, however, certamen can be used to settle any dispute, and the result of the certamen is binding.

One need not accept a challenge to certamen, but that is the same as conceding defeat. You may challenge anyone to certamen over a certain issue once, but the Peripheral Code prohibits you from challenging the same person again over that issue unless he challenges you in the meantime. If another issue comes up, you may challenge him again. Bullying magi with certamen is a Low Crime in almost all Tribunals. Certamen is solely an institution of the Order of Hermes; non-Hermetic wizards do not have the ability to participate in the ceremony, as it relies heavily on the Hermetic Arts.

Both participants specify in advance what the other magus will do, or refrain from doing, if he loses. The two requirements are expected to be symmetrical, and Tribunals do over-ride the results on asymmetric certamens. This gives magi some motivation not to bully with certamen; even the greatest archmage can botch.

To engage in certamen, you and the other magus must agree on one Form and Technique combination you will both use. By tradition, the aggressor in the duel chooses the Technique and the defender chooses the Form, and it is considered good form to go along with this choice. However, each magus may veto the other magus's first choice. If he does so, he must accept the second option.

Once the Technique and Form are chosen, you and your opponent concentrate for a moment, both entering trances. While entranced, competing magi have no defense against physical attacks. Each becomes attuned to the magical forces surrounding them, shaping them into phantasms representing the Technique and Form of the duel. If the Technique and Form are Muto and Animal, the phantasms might be two animals, one controlled by each magus. During the course of the duel, each animal changes into various other animals in an effort to defeat the other. A Creo Ignem contest could consist of two fiery beings fighting. In an Intellego Aquam contest it might appear that the combatants are in hazy water, each trying to reach some goal. The illusionary battle is a representation of the more subtle magical battle which affects the minds of the combatants.

Mechanical resolution of certamen is based on six totals.

**INITIATIVE TOTAL: Quickness + Finesse + Stress Die**

**ATTACK TOTAL: Presence + Technique or Form + Stress Die**

**DEFENSE TOTAL: Perception + Form or Technique + Stress Die**

**ATTACK ADVANTAGE: Attack Total - Defense Total (if Attack Total is higher)**

**WEAKENING TOTAL: Intelligence + Penetration + Attack Advantage**

**RESISTANCE TOTAL: Stamina + Parma Magica**

Initiative is rolled only once, at the beginning of the duel. This initiative is the same as combat initiative (see page 393), and if a certamen is taking place during combat, each magus acts at the point in the sequence determined by his initiative total.

On his action, a magus rolls a stress die to generate an Attack Total. His opponent rolls a stress die to generate a Defense Total. Unlike initiative, the dice for attack and defense are rolled every round. If the Defense Total equals or exceeds the Attack Total, the attack does no damage. If the Attack Total exceeds the Defense Total, the amount by which it does so is the Attack Advantage.

Each magus must use both the Technique and the Form in each round of certamen, using one for Attack and the other for Defense. The two magi may use different Arts from each other for Attack or Defense, and may change which Art they apply to which total from round to round.

Subtract the defender's Resistance Total from the Weakening Total. For every five points or fraction left over, the defender loses a Fatigue level. Note that the magus's Parma Magica score is added to the Resistance Total; it is not multiplied by five as it is for Magic Resistance.

| Weakening Total - Resistance Total | Fatigue Levels Lost |
| ---------------------------------- | ------------------- |
| 0                                  | None                |
| 1–5                                | 1                   |
| 6–10                               | 2                   |
| 11–15                              | 3                   |
| 16–20                              | 4                   |
| 21–25                              | 5                   |
| 26–30                              | 6                   |
| etc.                               | etc.                |

Certamen itself never causes wounds, merely exhaustion. If you lose more Fatigue levels than you have, you spend one more hour unconscious for every additional level lost.

You can use raw vis at any time during certamen, even if your opponent doesn't use it or doesn't expect its use. For every pawn you expend, add 2 to your Attack Total or Defense Total for one round only. Raw vis used must be attuned to the Art used for Attack or Defense in the duel. The number of pawns you can use in one round is limited to your score in the Form or Technique the vis is attuned to.

All members of House Tremere have a Minor Magical Focus with Certamen. This means that they always double the lower of the Technique and Form when engaged in certamen. Other Magical Foci do not apply.

There are three ways to win certamen. The first involves wearing your opponent down until he falls unconscious. When this happens, the victor is entitled to cast a single spell at the loser. This spell, which must be of the same Technique and Form as the contest, circumvents the loser's Parma Magica (though the loser still gets Magic Resistance based on the Form of the spell). In most certamen contests, this "free" spell is unnecessary, because your opponent's collapse already designates your victory. However, some duelists use it anyway to intimidate and embarrass those who fight them. This free spell can be used to harm your fallen opponent, but remember, certamen is intended to be a harmless way to resolve disputes, and the winner is still bound by the Hermetic Code.

The second way to win certamen is by surrender. If your opponent realizes he is outmatched, or wants to walk away from the duel, he can concede the contest. Such a submission means that the loser is still capable of defending himself, so he has full Parma Magica and Magic Resistance against any final spell cast at him.

The third way to win certamen is to maintain concentration in the face of distraction when your opponent does not. Concentration rolls are not necessitated by the loss of Fatigue levels during certamen. Sometimes, however, conditions surrounding the duel necessitate that the duelists make Concentration rolls. If one of the duelists fails a Concentration roll, the fight ends. The duelist's loss of concentration causes his phantasm to disappear, indicating the opponent's victory. A victor through loss of concentration does not get a free spell.

Loss of concentration, however, does not necessarily mean that certamen is over and that a victor is decided. If the victor under these circumstances refuses the honor, and the combatant who lost concentration agrees, the battle may resume until a clear victor emerges. A magus might refuse a victory by loss of concentration for reasons of honor, or because he intends to do more harm.

> #### Certamen Example
>
> Moratamis of Guernicus harbors suspicions about what Carolus of Tytalus gets up to at night. She asks him to tell her what he is doing, and he refuses. She doesn't have enough for an official Quaesitorial investigation, so she challenges him to certamen, demanding that he tell her what he has done if he loses. Carolus agrees, with the condition that Moratamis will not ask him about his activities again unless she is on official Quaesitorial business. (He has to add the condition, although he would prefer not to, or else the Tribunal is unlikely to uphold a result in his favor.) Carolus suspects he will lose, as Moratamis is older and thus more powerful.
>
> **Moratamis's Arts are:** Cr 1, In 12, Mu 1, Pe 7, Re 8; An 5, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 5, He 0, Ig 0, Im 10, Me 13, Te 0, Vi 5
>
> Her Characteristics are: Int +2, Per +3, Pre +2, Com +1, Str -2, Sta +1, Dex -2, Qik -1
>
> Her relevant Abilities are: Finesse 2, Parma Magica 5, Penetration 3.
>
> **Carolus's Arts are:** Cr 2, In 0, Mu 5, Pe 10, Re 7; An 3, Aq 0, Au 0, Co 5, He 0, Ig 0, Im 10, Me 7, Te 6, Vi 4
>
> His Characteristics are: Int +2, Per -1, Pre -1, Com -1, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +4, Qik 0
>
> His relevant Abilities are: Finesse 2, Parma Magica 3, Penetration 1.
>
> Moratamis challenged, so she picks the Technique. She is fairly sure that the only Technique she is much better at is Intellego, and she's also sure that Carolus knows this too. She thinks that her scores in Rego and Creo are fairly balanced with Carolus's, though. She knows that, if she proposes Intellego first, Carolus will veto it. On the other hand, if she proposes Rego first, Carolus might have other reasons to veto that, and thus let her use Intellego. Thus, she proposes Rego.
> 
> Carolus accepts, knowing full well that he'll be stuck with Intellego if he doesn't. For the Form, he proposes Imaginem. He knows that Moratamis studies that, but also that he has a reputation as a bit of an Imaginem specialist. He hopes that she'll think he thinks he has an advantage she doesn't know about. It works;
>
> Moratamis vetoes his first choice. Carolus then settles on Terram, where he is fairly sure he is better.
>
> The two now have the following statistics:
>
> **Moratamis:** Initiative: +1 (Qik –1 + Finesse 2), Attack: +10 (Rego: Rego 8 + Pre +2) or +2 (Terram: Terram 0 + Pre +2), Defense +11 (Rego: Rego 8 + Per +3) or +3 (Terram: Terram 0 + Per +3), Weakening +5 (Int +2 + Penetration 3), Resistance +6 (Sta +1 + Parma Magica 5)
>
> **Carolus:** Initiative: +2 (Oik 0 + Finesse 2), Attack +6 (Rego: Rego 7 + Pre -1) or +5 (Terram: Terram 6 + Pre -1), Defense +6 (Rego: Rego 7 + Per -1) or +5 (Terram: Terram 6 + Per -1), Weakening +3 (Int +2 + Penetration 1), Resistance +4 (Sta +1 + Parma Magica 3)
>
> The phantasms for the contest are the stones of the floor under their feet, which try to rise up and engulf them.
>
> The two roll Initiative. Moratamis rolls a 2, for a total of 3, and Carolus rolls a 5, for a total of 7. Carolus acts first.
>
> On the first round, Carolus chooses to put Rego into attack and Terram into defense, while Moratamis chooses to defend with Rego and attack with Terram. Carolus attacks first, and rolls a 12 (lucky!), for an Attack Total of 18. Moratamis rolls a 7, for a Defense Total of 18. On a dead heat, the defender wins, and Carolus cannot get through. Then Moratamis attacks. She rolls a 5, for a total of 7, while Carolus rolls a 2, also for a total of 7. Another dead heat, so nothing happens. The stones jump around a bit, but nothing happens.
>
> On the next round, Moratamis switches her Arts, in the hope of breaking through Carolus's defenses. Carolus still attacks first, and rolls a 10, for an Attack Total of 16. Moratamis rolls a zero, but doesn't botch, for a Defense Total of 3. Carolus has an Attack Advantage of 13. This adds to his Weakening Score of +3, for a Weakening Total of 16. Moratamis subtracts her Resistance of 6, so the final damage is 10. Moratamis thus loses two Fatigue levels, giving her a –1 penalty on Attack and Defense.
> 
> On her attack, Moratamis rolls a 2, for an Attack Total of 11, including the –1 penalty. Carolus rolls a 6, for a Defense Total of 11. Thanks to having already weakened Moratamis, he beats off the attack. The stones have climbed up to around Moratamis's knees.
>
> Moratamis decides that her switch of strategy was a mistake, and switches back. Carolus rolls a 20 (lucky again!) for an Attack Total of 26. Moratamis rolls an 8, for a Defense Total of 18. Carolus has an Attack Advantage of 8, which translates into a single Fatigue level lost. Moratamis now has a –3 penalty to Attack and Defense.
>
> She rolls a 7, which gives her an Attack Total of 6. Carolus rolls a 4, for a Defense Total of 9, easily safe.
>
> Moratamis is now hoping for a lucky break, and Carolus only rolls a 6, for an Attack Total of 12. Moratamis rolls a 6, for a Defense Total of 14, including the penalty. She is safe this round. For her counterattack, she rolls a 5, for an Attack Total of 4. Carolus rolls a zero, but doesn't botch, and still has a Defense Total of 5. He is safe, and the stones are swarming up around Moratamis's waist.
>
> The next round remains evenly balanced, neither magus managing to weaken the other. In the following round, Carolus rolls a 9, for an Attack Total of 15, while Moratamis only manages a 4, for a Defense Total of 12. This gives Carolus a Weakening Total of 6, which Moratamis is just able to resist. Still, she feels it and a few stones boil up to her chest for a moment. She rolls a 7 for her attack, for an Attack Total of 6. Carolus rolls a 6, for a Defense Total of 11, and easily blocks the thrust.
> 
> In the next round, Carolus rolls a 10, for a total of 16, while Moratamis rolls a 0, but doesn't botch, for a Defense Total of 8. This gives Carolus a final advantage of 2 points, enough to clip a further Fatigue level from Moratamis. Now that she has a penalty of –5 to Attack and Defense, she decides that she cannot win, and concedes the contest so that Carolus cannot cast a spell on her. Carolus goes off feeling that he wriggled out of that one quite nicely, and Moratamis turns her attention to other matters.

