## The Hermetic Arts

The term "Arts" refers collectively to Techniques and Forms — two classes of magical disciplines that work together in spellcasting. Techniques govern the essential manipulations that magic can perform; Forms, the essential natural phenomena that magic can manipulate. Techniques and Forms have Latin names. A Technique is referred to by a verb conjugated in first person, and a Form by a noun. You combine one Technique and one Form to cast a spell, and together their names indicate the spell's general function. For example, a "Creo Ignem" spell employs the Technique of "Creo" ("I create") and the Form of "Ignem" ("fire") and produces light, heat, or fire. A "Muto Ignem" spell ("Muto" = "I transform") transforms light, heat, or fire in some way, such as by increasing its intensity, its size, or its shape.

Hermetic magi have a score in each Art. Your scores in the Arts represent your aptitude for working with the various types of magic. Arts are not merely knowledges; your Arts are ultimately ways your very being expresses magical energy. In reflection of this, your score in a Form (in addition to allowing you to cast spells incorporating that Form) helps you resist spells of that type and avoid harm from mundane sources related to that Form. For instance, your Ignem (fire) score gives you a bonus to resist damage from fire and cold. This bonus is equal to one fifth of your score in the Form, rounded up, and adds to your ability to resist any damage deriving from that Form. The most important examples of each Form bonus's applicability are listed under the Form, but these are not exhaustive lists.

**FORM BONUS: Form score/5 (rounded up)**

These bonuses do not stack. If it seems like two would apply to a given hazard, use only the higher bonus.

In the following two sections, each of the Arts is listed with its common two-letter abbreviation, its translation from Latin, a general description, and its Hermetic pronunciation. More detailed descriptions of what a magus can do with various Technique Form combinations are given in the Spells chapter on page 313.

### Techniques

#### Creo (Cr) "I Create"

Creo magic makes things that exist independently into better things of their kind, which includes bringing them into existence from nothing. Things that exist independently are called substances, and include people, trees, and rocks, but do not include colors, weights, and sizes. Creo can thus both create and heal things.

The kind of thing that something is depends on its form. Natural things, such as plants, animals, flames, and so on, have simple forms, which means that the form is just one thing. This makes them easy to create and heal. Natural things created by magic are always perfect examples of their kind unless the magus wants them to be damaged. Similarly, magic can heal a natural thing even if the caster has no idea what is wrong, as it simply restores the form.

Artificial things, such as bread, swords and books, have complex forms. Their forms are combinations of several natural forms put together in a particular way. Creating an artificial thing by magic requires some skill on the part of the magus, reflected by his Finesse Ability. An Int + Finesse roll is made to determine how good the created thing is. Further, a magus can only create something he knows about. Any magus can create bread or cloth, but in order to create an elaborate mosaic depicting the foundation of the Order of Hermes the caster would need to know what it should depict. If he was wrong, the mosaic would also be wrong. Similar considerations apply to repairing artificial things.

A magus need not be able to create an artificial item by mundane means in order to create it by magic, he only needs to be somewhat familiar with it. A magically created item will always be the right sort of thing unless the magus botches his Finesse roll. Thus, unless the magus botches, magically created cloth will always be a whole piece and keep people warm, but it might not be very attractive if he rolled badly. For further details, see Craft Magic on page 306.

A magus can also use Creo to make something a better example of its kind, even if it isn't actually injured or damaged. Thus, Creo can make a horse as swift as the fastest horse, or a man as strong as the strongest man. Creo cannot make a horse able to run as fast as the wind, because no ordinary horse can do that, nor can it make a man strong enough to lift a castle. Since maturation involves becoming a better example of your kind, Creo magic can make something mature quickly. Aging after maturation involves becoming a worse example of your kind, and thus is covered by Perdo.

Creo magic can also create unnatural things, such as a winged cat, but a Muto requisite is necessary.

Magically created things last for the duration of the spell, but their effects last indefinitely. Thus, the footprints of a magically created horse do not vanish, nor does its dung, if it was fed on mundane food. If a magically created horse was fed on mundane food for a year, it would leave a mundane corpse when the spell expired, as the mundane food has been converted into mundane body. Conversely, magically created food only nourishes for as long as the duration lasts, and someone who has eaten it becomes extremely hungry when the duration expires. Things washed with magically created water stay clean, but people made drunk with magically created alcohol instantly sober up.

Pronounced 'CRAY-oh.'

#### Intellego (In) "I Perceive"

Intellego is the Art of perception. It allows a maga to gather information directly from the forms of things. This information does not deal with the appearances of things, unless Intellego Imaginem magic is used. Rather, it provides information about the actual nature of a thing. Thus, Intellego magic is not deceived by mundane disguises.

Pronounced 'in-TEL-le-go.'

#### Muto (Mu) "I Transform"

By using Muto magic a magus can grant or remove properties something cannot naturally have. Thus, Muto can give a person wings or turn her skin green, or turn a person into a wolf. The difficulty of the magic depends on the extent of the change, so that turning someone's skin green is easy, but turning someone into a golden statue is difficult.

It is possible to use Muto to give something an ability that it does not normally have. However, this can only change the target; it cannot give unnatural properties to other things. For example, a Muto Animal spell could give a feather the ability to cut stone. Feathers cannot naturally cut stone, but stone can naturally be cut. A Muto Animal spell could not give a feather the ability to turn stones into gold, because stones cannot naturally turn into gold. A Muto Terram spell could, of course, turn a stone into gold.

Muto magic cannot affect the properties that something has naturally, although it can add other properties to them to mask their effects. Thus Muto magic can neither injure nor kill someone directly, although it could render her immobile, by turning her to stone, or kill her indirectly, by turning her into a fish on dry land so that she suffocates.

Pronounced 'MOO-toe.'

#### Perdo (Pe) "I Destroy"

Perdo makes things worse examples of the kind of thing they are. It is the opposite of Creo. Perdo magic can simply destroy things, removing them completely from existence, or it can destroy aspects of a thing. Thus, Perdo Corpus could remove a person's weight, while leaving the rest of his properties intact, and Perdo Ignem could make a fire unable to burn anything. Perdo alone can only destroy the whole of a natural property; making fire able to burn only wood would be Perdo with a Muto requisite (see page 311 for requisites), Perdo destroying the ability to burn anything, and Muto granting the ability to burn only wood, a property that fire cannot naturally have.

Perdo magic is easier if the thing can naturally lose the property destroyed. Thus, it is easier to kill a person than to remove his weight while leaving his other properties intact, because the first can occur naturally while the second cannot. Further, destroying properties that a thing cannot naturally lose falls under the Limit of Essential Nature (see page 210), and thus cannot be permanent; the destroyed properties return by themselves at the end of the spell's duration.

Perdo can only make something a worse example of what it is. You cannot sharpen a sword with Perdo, even though sharpening involves removing some of the metal. Similarly, you cannot remove someone's property of being wounded, because that makes them a better example of what they are.

Pronounced 'PARE-doe.'

#### Rego (Re) "I Control"

The Art of Rego allows a maga to change the state of a thing to some other state that the individual thing can naturally have. Thus, since all things can naturally have any location, Rego magic allows a maga to move things around. Rego can also make a tree blossom out of season, put a person to sleep, shape a piece of stone into a statue, or weave thread into a tunic. It cannot make an animal appear young again, because mature animals cannot naturally become young (although Muto could do this). Rego also cannot make an animal old, because aging is decay away from the form (so Perdo could do this). Similarly, although Rego can make a tree bear fruit out of season, that fruit would not contain seeds, as the seeds are separate substances (potential trees), and thus creating them would require Creo. Equally, Rego cannot turn a brown dog black, because while dogs can naturally be black, the brown dog in question cannot naturally take on that color.

Mundane craftsmen can only change something's state to another state that the thing can naturally have. Thus, most changes that a mundane craftsman can make can also be made by Rego magic. In this case, a Finesse roll is required to determine the quality of the outcome. Rego can make changes that a mundane craftsman cannot make, however, when the craftsman is limited simply by available tools, time, or skill. On the other hand, mundane craftsmen can use their tools to simply damage or destroy things, and Rego magic cannot do that: it falls under Perdo. Rego magic could be used to control an axe to cut a tree down, but it could not be used to cut the tree down directly — that would be Perdo. Once the tree was cut down, however, Rego magic could shape the wood into planks. For more details, see Craft Magic on page 306.

Pronounced 'RAY-go.'

### Forms

#### Animal (An) "animal'

Animal concerns animals of all kinds, from the fish of the sea to the birds of the air. Animal spells cannot affect people, and Hermetic theorists still debate the reason for this.

*Form Bonus:* Soak against animal attacks (claws, bites, etc.), rolls to resist animal poisons.

Pronounced 'ah-nee-MAHL.'

#### Aquam (Aq) "water"

Aquam concerns water and all manner of liquids, as well as properties of liquidity.

*Form Bonus:* Rolls to resist drowning and thirst, soak against water jets and the like.

Pronounced 'AH-kwahm.'

#### Auram (Au) "air"

Auram is the Art of air, wind, and weather. It also governs gaseous forms in general.

*Form bonus:* Rolls to resist suffocation, including drowning, soak against weather phenomena such as lightning.

Pronounced 'OW-rahm.'

#### Corpus (Co) "body"

Corpus is the Art of human bodies. This Art affects dead bodies and the bodies of magical or faerie creatures that look human, as well as those of living humans. Since natural philosophy asserts that these things have no more in common than their appearance, and Corpus does not affect human statues, Hermetic theorists are puzzled by the range of this Form.

*Form bonus:* Soak against human unarmed attacks, rolls to resist disease. It does not apply to aging rolls.

Pronounced 'COR-poos.'

#### Herbam (he) "plant"

This Form concerns plants and trees. This includes plant matter of all types, including that which is no longer alive — like dead wood and linens.

*Form bonus:* Soak against wooden weapons, rolls to resist herbal poisons, rolls to resist starvation.

Pronounced 'HARE-bahm.'

#### Ignem (Ig) "fire"

This Form concerns fire, heat, and light.

*Form bonus:* Soak against fire and cold. Pronounced 'IG-nem.'

#### Imaginem (Im) "image"

This Form concerns the things in the world that the senses respond to.
Natural philosophy calls them species (SPEH-kee-ayss, to be distinguished from species of animals and such). All things constantly give off species for each of the senses. Those for touch and taste do not travel far, while those for sight require light to get any distance from the originating body. Imaginem spells normally affect the process by which species are produced, rather than the species themselves. Thus, the species emanating from an illusion are not themselves magical.

Imaginem magic can also affect the species themselves, and if it does, those species are magical, and must Penetrate in order to pass through Magic Resistance and be perceived. This uses the same guidelines as spells affecting the process by which species are produced, and is discussed in more detail in the Jerbiton chapter of Houses of Hermes: Societates.

Note that Imaginem cannot create actual solidity, although it could make something 'feel solid' until you accidentally put your hand right through the surface. Touch illusions are much more effective at changing the way that an already solid surface feels, making a wooden table feel like stone, or a knife feel blunt.

Imaginem only changes the appearance that an object presents to the world. It does not change the actual effects of the object. Imaginem could make a fire feel cool, but the fire would still burn.

*Form bonus:* Rolls to resist confusion, deafening, or nausea caused by sights, sounds, smells, or tastes.

Pronounced 'ih-MAH-gih-nem.'

#### Mentem (Me) "mind"

This Form concerns minds, thoughts, and spirits. Mentem can also affect the "bodies" of noncorporeal beings, such as ghosts, as these are maintained in the physical world directly by a spirit's will.

*Form bonus:* Rolls to resist mundane persuasion, deception, or temptation.

Pronounced 'MEN-tem.'

#### Terram (Te) "earth"

This Form concerns solids, especially earth and stone.

*Form bonus:* Soak against metal or stone weapons, rolls to resist mineral poisons.

Pronounced 'TARE-rahm.'

#### Vim (Vi) "power"

This Form concerns raw magical power. All the Arts rely on the raw energy and potential of magic, but this Art refines the use of magic itself, allowing magi to assume even greater control of their spells. Vim also affects magical, infernal, divine, and faerie creatures.

*Form bonus:* Rolls to resist Twilight (see page 228), but not rolls to comprehend it; soak total against damage inflicted by your own spell-casting, but not damage inflicted by your own spells.

Pronounced 'WEEM.'

#### The Elemental Forms

Aquam, Auram, Ignem, and Terram are the elemental forms, dealing with the non-living things in the world. Often, a thing falls under more than one of these Arts. Thus, molten lava is basically Terram, because it is a form of rock, but its liquidity is governed by Aquam and its heat by Ignem. Similarly, ice is basically Aquam, being a form of water, but its solidity is covered by Terram and its coldness by Ignem. As a rule, simple creation or destruction of a non-living thing needs only the basic Art, without requisites (see page 311). Thus, to create ice you need only Creo Aquam. However, affecting the aspects and properties of a thing might use the other Arts. Thus, making ice warm would require Creo Ignem. A Creo Aquam spell with an Ignem requisite could create warm ice — still solid, but warm. Alternatively, a magus could simply create warmth, and allow it to naturally melt the ice.

Mist is a kind of air, so its basic form is Auram, but its dampness means that it is also affected by Aquam in certain respects. Weather phenomena are all basically Auram, including rain storms, but a spell to affect the rain alone would be Aquam. Hail storms, then, are basically Auram, but the hail stones are basically Aquam with elements of Ignem and Terram.

