## Limits of Magic

Magic, though a very powerful force, is not omnipotent. There are certain laws it must conform to and certain limits that it can never exceed. The limits to Hermetic magic are described below. Most Hermetic theorists believe that there are only two fundamental limits, the Limit of the Divine and the Limit of Essential Nature, and that the other limits are derived from one or other of these. Some theorists think that the lesser limits are merely flaws in Bonisagus's theory.

The boundaries of Hermetic magic are well known to the Order, but that doesn't stop magi from challenging them. Indeed, many magi spend countless years searching in vain for a way to transcend these limits. Certainly, any magus who actually succeeds in doing so will become famous, perhaps as famous as the Order's very Founders.

### The Limit of the Divine

Hermetic magic cannot affect the Divine. Any magic attempting to do so simply fails. Everyone agrees that Hermetic powerlessness in the face of miracles is a result of this limit, as is the inability of Hermetic magic to affect the transubstantiated bread and wine of the Mass.

The agents of the Divine, such as saints and angels, are protected from magic to some extent, but are not normally completely immune. As a general rule, it seems that any being with a will separate from God's can be affected by magic, at least in principle. Only direct action by God is completely immune.

### The Limit of Essential Nature

Any magic which violates a thing's essential nature must be maintained, and when power is no longer supplied the thing returns to its natural state. Thus, Muto magic must always be maintained, while the effects of Rego magic persist after the spell expires. A thing's essential nature cannot itself be changed. While Hermetic magic can completely change the way a thing appears, it cannot affect what that thing is.

A thing's essential nature varies depending on what it is. All human beings are essentially human, mortal creatures with reason, senses, and the ability to move and reproduce. The basic shape of the human body is also part of the essential nature, although bits can be cut off. The game works on the assumption that every feature of someone's physical appearance is either an injury (which can be fixed with Creo magic), or part of their essential nature. This is necessary to avoid the ability to permanently change appearance with a single Momentary Duration Rego spell. A single characteristic may be an injury for one person, and part of the essential nature of another. For example, some people are essentially blind, whereas others are blind merely as a result of chance. As a rule, any disability purchased as a Flaw at character creation is part of the character's essential nature, while disabilities acquired later are not.

### The Lesser Limits

The Lesser Limits are as follows.

#### The Limit of Aging

Hermetic magic cannot halt or reverse natural aging, although it can slow it down and mitigate its effects. This means that Hermetic magic cannot remove Decrepitude. Most magi think this derives from the Limit of Essential Nature.

#### The Limit of Arcane Connections

Hermetic magic cannot affect an unsensed target without an Arcane Connection. This is widely believed to be a flaw in Hermetic theory, as Intellego magic is much less tightly bound by this limit than other kinds. Intellego can determine whether, for example, there are any people behind a wall the magus can see, but Perdo Corpus magic cannot affect those people until the magus is aware of them.

#### The Limit of Creation

Hermetic magic is incapable of creating anything permanently without raw vis. This limit affects all uses of Creo magic. However, as pure Creo magic does not violate the essential nature of its target, Creo magic that does use raw vis does not need to be maintained. If a Creo effect has a Muto requisite, to create something unnatural, the effect cannot be made permanent by using raw vis. This applies to the whole creation, not just the unnatural aspects. Theorists are divided on whether this derives from the Limit of the Divine or the Limit of Essential Nature. A few think it is a flaw in Bonisagus's theory.

#### The Limit of Energy

Hermetic magic cannot restore one's physical energy (Fatigue levels), nor can it restore Confidence (see page 29). Most magi think that this is a flaw in Hermetic theory.

#### The Limit of Experience

Hermetic magic cannot create skills or knowledge in a person by manipulating their mind, nor can it transfer such things (Abilities, in game terms) from one person to another. This is widely believed to be a flaw in Hermetic theory, although a few magi have suggested that it is a flaw in their understanding of Abilities. Hermetic magic can create much simpler things of the same general type as Abilities, which would support the latter interpretation. (This is discussed in more detail in *Houses of Hermes: Societates*, pages 68–69.)

#### The Limit of the Infernal

Intellego magic is almost completely useless against the Infernal, because it reveals only what the demons want you believe, whether that is true or not.

The source of this limit is fiercely debated. Optimists think it is a limit in Hermetic theory. Pessimists think it is derived from the Limit of the Divine. Moderates think it is derived from the Limit of Essential Nature, in that deception is the nature of demons, so that if you use Intellego on them you only detect their deceptions. Heretical magi point out that, thanks to this limit, there is no way to tell the difference between God and a very powerful demon.

#### The Limit of the Lunar Sphere

Hermetic magic cannot affect the lunar sphere, nor anything above it. Most magi think this derives from the Limit of the Divine. The lunar sphere is the innermost of the celestial spheres, which carry the stars and planets on their revolutions around the earth, and so this limit rarely bothers magi directly.

#### The Limit of the Soul

Hermetic magic cannot create an immortal soul, and so may not create true human life nor restore the dead to life. Most magi think this derives from the Limit of the Divine, although a significant number think that Hermetic magic's inability to raise the dead reflects nothing more than a flaw in the theory.

Animals have no immortal souls, and so may be created. Magical creatures and faeries are generally believed not to have immortal souls, and there are spells that appear to create them, but some magi believe that such spells really summon existing beings. Angels and demons are nothing but immortal souls.

#### The Limit of Time

Hermetic magic is incapable of altering the passage of time. It cannot affect anything in the past, and can only affect the future by making changes in the present. This limit also means that Hermetic magic cannot scry on the past or future. Most magi think this derives from the Limit of the Divine.

#### The Limit of True Feeling

A few humans have a love, friendship, or faith that Hermetic magic cannot affect in any way. (In game terms, this is indicated by a Virtue or Flaw.) Magi agree that this must derive from one of the two fundamental Limits, because most emotions can be affected by magic, but they disagree as to which one.

#### The Limit of Vis

Hermetic magic cannot change the Art to which raw vis is attuned. Most magi think that this is a result of the Limit of Essential Nature.

#### The Limit of Warping

Prolonged exposure to active magic or high auras usually causes changes, generally referred to as warping. Hermetic magic is completely unable to affect these changes once they have happened. 

Wizard's Twilight (see page 228) is one manifestation of warping.

Most magi would like to believe that this derives from the Limit of the Divine, as that would make magic a manifestation of Divine power. Others believe that it is derived from the Limit of Essential Nature.

> #### The Limit of Magic Resistance
>
> Non-Hermetic magic is incapable of granting general Magic Resistance, as far as Hermetic magi know. (The same is true of Faerie powers, but not the Divine or Infernal.) This is obviously not a fundamental limit of magic, as Hermetic magic does grant Magic Resistance, through the Parma Magica and Form scores, and many magi take this as evidence that Hermetic magic is simply superior to all other traditions.
>
> More knowledgeable magi are aware that some non-Hermetic traditions break some of the Lesser Limits of Hermetic magic. The optimistic among them take this as evidence that Hermetic magic could also break those limits. See Ancient Magic, Rival Magic, and Hedge Magic Revised Edition for examples of such traditions.

