## Raw Vis

Raw magic power, known as vis (pronounced 'WEES'), is sometimes found stored in and partially constituting some physical substance. This can occur either because a magus has trapped it there or because it was deposited there by natural magical processes. Vis trapped in some substance is called raw vis, and magi have many uses for it.

Raw vis is always associated with a particular Technique or Form. Thus, there is Ignem vis, Creo vis, Imaginem vis— even Vim vis. Raw vis invariably exists in some kind of matter appropriate to the Technique or Form to which it corresponds. Animal vis might be found in blood, skins, or horns; Herbam vis in plant fiber or sap; Terram vis in crystals, and so on. When raw vis is used its power is permanently lost. When this happens its substance often changes — dissolving, withering, crumbling, shriveling, or otherwise degrading — in whatever way is appropriate to it. This normally does not happen if the vis has been magically transferred to another receptacle (see page 250), and never happens to such artificial receptacles.

Raw vis can be used in many applications. Examples include strengthening a spell, performing a ritual, creating a magical enchantment, or aiding in the study of the magical Art to which it corresponds. Because of its utility, vis is greatly prized by magi. They often use it as a form of currency, measuring it in units called pawns. Ten pawns are said to make a rook, while ten rooks make a queen. A queen of vis is a legendary quantity, and it would be highly unlikely for a given magus to possess even a sizable fraction of such an amount.

Magi often wear sources of vis in necklaces or rings so that other wizards or magical beings can readily perceive that they have vis to use in response to a threat.

