## Casting Spells

Spellcasting is based on the maga's *Casting Score*:

**CASTING SCORE: Technique + Form + Stamina - Encumbrance + Aura Modifier**

When casting a spell, success is determined from the maga's *Casting Total*. This is calculated in different ways, depending on the type of spell.

If the generation of the casting total involves rolling a stress die, a botch is normally possible. If the casting roll botches, the casting total is treated as zero, in addition to any other effects.

### Spell Basics

All Hermetic spells have a Technique, Form, and Level. The Technique and Form are determined by the kind of effect that the spell has, while the Level is determined by how powerful that effect is. Spells also have a magnitude, which is equal to the level divided by five, rounded up. These terms are discussed in more detail in the remainder of this chapter and in the introduction to the Spells chapter, page 301.

### Formulaic Magic

Formulaic magic is the use of spells that the maga already knows. The casting total is the casting score plus a die roll.

**FORMULAIC CASTING TOTAL: Casting Score + Die Roll**

The type of die rolled depends on the situation. If the maga is not under any pressure, it is a simple die. If she is in a stressful situation, it is a stress die. If the maga has mastered the spell, the die is always a stress die, but in a calm situation there are no botch dice, even if the maga is in a non-Magic aura (see below, page 225).

If the casting total equals or exceeds the level of the spell, the spell is cast and the maga suffers no illeffects. If the casting total falls short of the spell level by ten or less, the spell takes effect and the maga loses a Fatigue level. If the casting total falls short of the spell level by more than ten the spell fails to take effect, but the maga still loses a Fatigue level.

| Casting Total — Spell Level | Spell Cast? | Fatigue Levels Lost |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------- |
| 0 or higher                 | Yes         | 0                   |
| −1 to −10                   | Yes         | 1                   |
| –11 or lower                | No          | 1                   |

It takes only a few seconds to cast a Formulaic spell.

### Ritual Magic

Ritual spells are like Formulaic spells, but they take longer to cast, and involve both elaborate rituals and the expenditure of raw vis. It takes fifteen minutes per magnitude to cast a Ritual spell, and the maga must expend one pawn of vis per magnitude of the spell.

**RITUAL CASTING TOTAL: Casting Score + Artes Liberales + Philosophiae + Stress Die**

The more elaborate process of casting a Ritual spell allows the maga to incorporate astrological calculations and to draw on the powers of natural magic. This is reflected in the addition of the maga's Artes Liberales and Philosophiae scores to the casting total. However, a maga with no experience points in either Ability may still cast Ritual Magic.

The vis used in a Ritual spell must match either the Technique or the Form of the spell. It is possible to use both types of vis at once. In addition, the maximum number of pawns of a given type that a magus may use in spellcasting is his score in the corresponding Art.

The magnitude of Ritual spells, and the need to incorporate many elements, means that a stress die is always rolled, which normally creates the possibility of a botch. However, if the maga has mastered the spell, there are no botch dice in a calm situation, as for Formulaic spells.

See the table to determine whether the spell succeeds or not, and how many Fatigue levels are lost. Fatigue levels lost to Ritual Magic are longterm Fatigue levels, which can only be regained by a good night's sleep (see page 404). If the maga does not have enough Fatigue levels remaining, she takes wounds as well. If she would have taken one more Fatigue level, the wound is minor, if two more, medium, if three more, heavy, and if four more, incapacitating. For example, consider a maga with two remaining Fatigue levels who is casting a level 30 Ritual spell. She generates a casting total of 22, 8 less than the spell level. The spell is cast, but the maga loses her remaining two Fatigue levels, falling unconscious, and then takes a Light wound.


| Casting Total — Spell Level | Spell Cast? | Fatigue Levels Lost |
| --------------------------- | ----------- | ------------------- |
| 0 or higher                 | Yes         | One                 |
| −1 to −5                    | Yes         | Two                 |
| −6 to −10                   | Yes         | Three               |
| −11 to −15                  | No          | Four                |
| –16 or more                 | No          | Five                |

### Spontaneous Magic

Spontaneous magic involves the production of effects which do not correspond to a spell the magus knows. Magi may choose whether or not to exert themselves when casting Spontaneous magic, but this affects the casting total. If a maga exerts herself, she loses a Fatigue level immediately after the spell is cast, so that if this loss renders her unconscious the spell takes effect first. Casting fatiguing Spontaneous magic is inherently stressful, and so it always uses a stress die, with the risk of a botch, no matter how calm the environment and the maga may otherwise be.

**FATIGUING SPONTANEOUS MAGIC CASTING TOTAL: (Casting Score + Stress Die)/2**

**NON-FATIGUING SPONTANEOUS MAGIC CASTING TOTAL: Casting Score/5**

Before casting the spell, the maga must decide on the effect she is trying to create. If her final total is too low for that effect, the spell fails. The chosen effect may be open ended. For example, the maga may want to create the brightest light she can. In this case, the spell will fail if the final level cannot produce any light, but otherwise greater totals will produce brighter light.

If the maga rolls well, she may choose to increase any or all of the Range, Duration, or Target of the spell, but may not change the basic effect. If the effect was open ended, the maga may choose how much of the casting total to devote to the power of the effect, and how much to devote to Range, Duration, and Target. She may also choose to cast the spell at a lower level than her casting total, to increase its Penetration.

Modifiers from circumstances that affect the casting score are divided just like the basic casting score. Modifiers that affect the casting total are not divided.

### Penetration Total

The maga's casting total measures the total amount of power that she can channel to the spell. The spell's level determines how much power is needed to create the intended effect. Any excess power is used to overcome, or Penetrate, magical defenses. It is possible for the casting total to be lower than the spell level, in which case the maga has no spare energy for penetrating defenses, and even the weakest defense stops the spell.

The Penetration Total measures how effectively the spell can overcome the Magic Resistance of its targets. It is calculated in the same way for all spells.

**PENETRATION TOTAL: Casting Total + Penetration Bonus - Spell Level**

The Penetration Bonus is at least equal to the magus's score in the Penetration Ability, but may be increased in various ways, see the Penetration section on page 219, below. This may mean that a spell has different Penetration Totals for different targets.

The Penetration Total may be zero or negative. For example, if a magus with a Penetration Bonus of 0, because he has no score in Penetration, casts a Formulaic spell with a Casting Total 5 less than the spell's level, his Penetration Total is -5. If the Penetration is zero or negative, the spell cannot affect any target with Magic Resistance, even if the score of the Magic Resistance is 0. However, it can still affect targets with no Magic Resistance.

If the Penetration Total exceeds a target's Magic Resistance, the spell affects that target. If a spell is targeted at several individuals who have different levels of Magic Resistance, it is possible for the spell to affect some but not others.

The rules for calculating Penetration for the powers of supernatural creatures are given in the Bestiary chapter (page 426). The rules for the Penetration of other supernatural abilities are given on page 412, or in the supplement with the rules for the ability; in most cases, the Penetration is the total generated for the ability plus Penetration Bonus, minus the Ease Factor for the effect.

### Concentration

A maga must concentrate in order to cast a spell. If she is distracted, she must make a concentration roll.

**CONCENTRATION ROLL: Stamina + Concentration + Stress Die**

If the concentration roll fails, the spell fails. If the spell casting roll involved a stress die, you must still roll to see whether the maga botches, and you get one extra botch die. The Ease Factor for the concentration roll depends on the distraction.


| Situation                         | Ease Factor    |
| --------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Still Still                       | Trivial (0)    |
| Walking                           | Simple (3)     |
| Running                           | Average (9)    |
| Dodging                           | Hard (12)      |
| Jostled                           | Average (9)    |
| Sudden noise or<br>flash of light | Average (9)    |
| Knocked Down                      | Hard (12)      |
| Damaged this round                | Very Hard (15) |

Some spells are also maintained for as long as the maga concentrates. In that case, the Ease Factors on the above table are reduced by three points each.

There are some things it is possible to do while maintaining a spell, but impossible to do while casting. These still distract magi who are concentrating on maintaining a spell, and so concentration rolls are necessary, but the Ease Factors on the following table are already correct, and should not be reduced by three points.


| Situation                               | Ease Factor                                                                                   |
| --------------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Answering a single easy yes/no question | Hard (12)                                                                                     |
| Conversation                            | Very Hard (15)                                                                                |
| Casting another spell                   | Very Hard (15)                                                                                |
| Maintaining another spell               | Hard (12), +3 for each spell beyond the second                                                |
| Injured                                 | 3 times wound penalty<br>to Concentration rolls<br>(this is instead of the<br>normal penalty) |

For a continuing situation, such as injury or maintaining another spell, you must make a concentration roll every two minutes (Diameter duration). If you are undistracted, you can maintain concentration for fifteen minutes for every point you have in the Concentration Ability.

Note, if a spell is designed to let the magus do something, doing that thing does not interfere with concentrating on the spell. This applies to spells that let the magus talk to animals, plants, or water, or to spells that let the magus run very quickly.

