## Spellcasting Options

This section offers options for spellcasting, to use at your discretion.

### All Spells

The following option can be used with all spells.

#### Using Raw Vis

It is possible to use raw vis to boost the power of a maga's spells. The vis must match either the Technique or the Form of spell, and a maga may only use a number of pawns of a given type of vis equal to her score in that Art.

**LIMIT ON VIS USE IN SPELL CASTING: The Maga's Score in the Art of the Vis**

For all spells, a maga may expend vis to increase her casting score. Each pawn of vis expended increases the Casting Score by two.

**VIS BOOST TO CASTING SCORE: +2 Casting Score Per Pawn**

Vis must be used when casting Ritual spells, as noted above. Vis used in this way does not increase the Casting Score, but it does count against the limits of what can be used.

It is possible to use vis matching both the Technique and the Form in one casting of a spell, and the amount of each type of vis is limited separately. Thus, a magus with a score of 5 in the of each type of vis is limited separately. Thus, a magus with a score of 5 in the Technique and 3 in the Form could use up to 8 pawns of vis, no more than 5 corresponding to the Technique and no more than 3 corresponding to the Form.

For every pawn of vis used, the maga must roll an extra botch die if the casting roll is stress and comes up a zero. This includes the pawns used to make a Ritual spell possible. Remember that, if the maga can cast a Formulaic spell under calm conditions, she can use a simple die and thus avoid the possibility of botching.

**VIS BOTCH DICE: +1 botch die per pawn of vis used**

### Non-Ritual Spells

The following option can be used when casting Formulaic or most Spontaneous spells, but not for Ritual Magic, or Spontaneous spells cast ceremonially (see later).

#### Words and Gestures

Spells are normally cast with a firm voice and bold gestures. However, the caster may choose to be more or less subtle. Increased subtlety gives a penalty to the casting score, while reduced discretion gives a bonus. If the maga changes the volume of her voice, she also changes the range of Voice range spells.

The total modifier is determined by adding the Words and Gestures modifiers together. Thus,

| Words | Modifier | Gestures    | Modifier | Voice Range                 |
| ----- | -------- | ----------- | -------- | --------------------------- |
| Loud  | + 1      | Exaggerated | +1       | 50 paces                    |
| Firm  | 0        | Bold        | 0        | 15 paces                    |
| Quiet | -5       | Subtle      | -2       | 5 paces                     |
| None  | -10      | None        | -5       | 0 paces (caster only)       |

using exaggerated gestures but making no noise gives a total penalty of –9 to the casting score.

The process of casting a Ritual or ceremonial spell uses all of these options at different points, as determined by the ritual. Thus, unless the caster can speak in a loud voice and make exaggerated gestures, they cannot cast a Ritual spell.

### Spontaneous Spells

The following options can only be used when a maga is using Spontaneous magic, but can be used equally for fatiguing and non-fatiguing Spontaneous spells.

#### Fast Casting

A maga may choose to cast a Spontaneous spell extremely quickly, as a response to an attack or other surprising event. A fast-cast spell is always cast in the way that a maga casts urgent spells normally. In most cases, that means using a firm voice and bold gestures. However, for example, a maga with the Subtle Magic Virtue who almost never uses gestures to cast spells would also cast fast-cast spells without gestures. It is not possible to apply options that affect the spell itself, rather than the way it is cast, as there is not enough time for the maga to think about anything other than the core features of the spell. For example, a fast-cast spell cannot be boosted with raw vis.

There are two stages: determining the speed of casting, and determining the effect of the spell.

The speed of casting is determined as follows:

**FAST CASTING SPEED: Quickness + Finesse + Stress Die**

The Ease Factor for this roll depends on the situation. In combat, the Ease Factor is always the opponent's Initiative Total. Other Ease Factors should be set by the storyguide. Note that, even in combat, the fast casting speed is not an Initiative Total. A maga may be able to cast more than one fast-cast spell in one combat round. However, each spell after the first takes a cumulative -6 penalty to the Fast Casting Speed: -6 for the second spell, -12 for the third, and so on. Once one of these rolls has been failed, that is the roll does not equal or exceed the Ease Factor for that roll, which may be the Initiative Total of another combatant, the maga can cast no further spells in that combat round.

If the roll for a fast-cast spell fails, the maga may still cast that spell. It will be too late to have its intended effect, and the maga may choose to abort the spell without any risk.

A maga casting a fast-cast spell must subtract ten from the Casting Score before calculating the Casting Total. In addition, if the player rolls a zero, there are two additional botch dice.

**FAST CAST PENALTY: -10 to Casting Score**

**FAST CAST BOTCH DICE: +2 botch dice**

In order to create a fast-cast defense against magic, a maga must know the Hermetic Form that governs that magic. If the caster is a Hermetic magus and is using words and gestures that she can hear and see, she may determine this automatically. A Perception + Awareness roll may be needed to catch the details of the gestures, particularly if they are subtle.

In other circumstances, the maga must work the Form out. A Perception + Awareness roll against an Ease Factor of 15 minus the magnitude of the effect is needed.

**DETERMINING FORM OF MAGICAL EFFECT: Perception + Awareness vs. 15 – effect magnitude**

In general, a fast-cast defense with half the level of the attacking spell is enough to protect the maga herself or one other individual. The spell still takes effect, and the side effects of deflecting the spell may have to be dealt with. A fast-cast defense that matches or exceeds the level of the attacking spell can completely neutralize it, probably in a fairly spectacular fashion.

Fast-cast defenses against mundane threats work if the level of the spell is high enough to neutralize the threat.

#### Ceremonial Casting

A maga may spend fifteen minutes for every magnitude of the spell performing rituals to invoke the powers of natural magic. As a result, she may add her scores in Artes Liberales and Philosophiae to her Casting Score. A maga may use ceremonial casting even if she has no experience points in one of the two Abilities, but not if she has no experience points in either.

No matter how good the roll, the level of the spell is limited by the time the maga spent in casting it, to one magnitude per fifteen minutes. However, the casting total may be very high, so the spell may have good Penetration. Thus, if the maga spends one hour preparing, the final spell cannot be higher than fourth magnitude, which means its level cannot be higher than 20. However, if she gets lucky and rolls a 64 on the stress die, the spell will have a Penetration of 12 (32, which is half of 64, minus the maximum spell level of 20) plus half her Technique + Form + Artes Liberales + Philosophiae + Stamina total.

**CEREMONIAL CASTING BONUS: Add Artes Liberales and Philosophiae to Casting Score**

Characters may also increase the effectiveness of ceremonial casting by using props, and by using a prepared spellcasting space.

The use of props provides a bonus based on the mystical significance of the items used. Large props are the most effective, but are very expensive, because master craftsmen must make them from rare materials. Large props are also difficult to transport. Medium-sized props are the ones magi can create or acquire most easily. Many evocative items that may be found during stories are medium-sized props. Tiny props are expensive because they must be made from precious metals and gemstones that accord with the Arts. Props aid magic, but are not magical items. They may be constructed or repaired by a skilled craftsman (Ability of 5 or more) under the guidance of a magus, without distracting the magus from study. Bonus to Casting Score, for casting with ceremonial props, by prop size:

- +1 for gemstones and other tiny items, that can be carried in a belt pouch by a magus.
- +2 for small props, fifteen of which completely fill a backpack.
- +3 for medium sized props, such that fifteen would completely fill a horse's saddlebags, or a barrel.
- +4 for large props, such that fifteen could only be transported by a wagon
- +5 for props so large that it is impractical to move them from the room in which they are constructed.

As an example, Carmine of Flambeau, the wife of the Primus of Jerbiton, prefers Creo Ignem effects. She wears a ruby necklace and a coral brooch, and uses these as a small ceremonial kit when casting small effects in cities. Her husband prefers Rego Imaginem magic. He has a medium-sized ceremonial kit, two items of which are a wand made of the crown of a fairy king that he defeated (Imaginem), and his cat familiar (Rego, for this particular cat).

Prepared space reduces the time required to cast spells ceremonially.

Casting time when using ceremonial spaces, in minutes per magnitude:

- Twelve minutes per magnitude: a space that the magus has created as a temporary recourse. For example, a series of chalk circles on the floor of a rented room in a foreign city.
- Nine minutes per magnitude: a space naturally suited to the performance of ceremonial magic. These spaces are often beautiful. For example, a cliff ledge that faces the sunrise, the pinnacle of the covenant's tallest tower at night, or the depths of an autumn forest.
- Six minutes per magnitude: A space that the magus has carefully designed to have suitable architectural features, lines of light and reflection, and appropriate placement of color.
- Three minutes per magnitude: The magus's laboratory, or other place of magical contemplation.
- One minute per magnitude: A room designed solely for ceremonial casting, which contains props of the largest variety, and mystical choreographies permanently inscribed on the floor. Characters with the Mystical Choreography Virtue cast ceremonial magic at this speed regardless of how temporary their prepared space.

