## Penetration

Penetration is the ability of a spell or other magical ability to affect something that has Magic Resistance. If something has no Magic Resistance, Penetration is irrelevant. A single spell may have several targets, for example all the members of a Group. In that case, any targets without Magic Resistance are affected no matter what the Penetration of the spell, but any targets with Magic Resistance are only affected if the spell Penetrates that target's Magic Resistance.

Any character with the Penetration Ability can use sympathetic magic to increase the Penetration of her magic. The Penetration Bonus starts at one times the character's Penetration Ability, and the multiplier can be increased. This requires that the character have an Arcane Connection to the target of the magic.

| Arcane Connection        | Bonus to Multiplier |
| ------------------------ | ------------------- |
| Lasts hours or days      | +1                  |
| Lasts weeks or months    | +2                  |
| Lasts years or decades   | +3                  |
| Lasts indefinitely       | +4                  |

The same Arcane Connection can be used to both allow the use of Arcane Connection Range, and to boost Penetration. Only one Arcane Connection can be used to give a bonus to Penetration against a single target, but it is possible to use Arcane Connections on multiple targets to boost the Penetration of a single spell. The spell might then have a different Penetration against each of its targets. Note that a caster might think she has an Arcane Connection to a target, but be mistaken. In that case, the Arcane Connection does "work", but the increased Penetration is irrelevant as that individual is not targeted by the spell.

Once a character has an Arcane Connection she can use other sympathetic magic to increase the multiplier further. Any number of sympathetic connections may be used, and their bonuses stack. The following table provides some examples, but is not exhaustive. Each troupe should specify the kinds of sympathetic connection it allows, but no single connection should give a bonus of greater than +2.

### Forceless Casting

A maga can deliberately ensure the Penetration Total of a spell does not exceed 0. In essence, the maga casts the spell with no more effort than is required to avoid Fatigue and opts not to use her Penetration skill. As most magi have at least a Magic Resistance of 0, she can ensure her spell will not affect them, provided she does not botch. It is not possible for a maga to choose a Penetration Total other than 0, although mystery cults may know secret techniques that permit this, and original research might also reveal a method.
 
Forceless casting requires no particular skill or effort. It is useful in magical tournaments, or when a maga casts a spell covering a large area and wants to avoid inadvertently affecting any magi who may be within the target area.

### Sympathetic Connections

| Sympathetic Connection                   | Bonus to Multiplier |
| ---------------------------------------- | --------------------|
| Caster is blood relative of target       | +1                  |
| Signature of target                      | +1                  |
| Target's nickname or birth name*         | +1                  |
| Name target uses in secret magic rituals | +1                  |
| Target's horoscope for today**           | +1                  |
| Target's nativity horoscope***           | +2                  |
| Symbolic representation of target****    | +2                  |

\*Baptismal names cannot be used in sympathetic magic.

\*\*Caster must know the target's current location, and succeed in an Int + Artes Liberales (Astronomy) roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Casting such a horoscope takes an hour.

\*\*\*Caster must know the target's place and time of birth, and succeed in an Int + Artes Liberales (Astronomy) roll against an Ease Factor of 9. Casting such a horoscope takes a day's work.

\*\*\*\*An illustration or model of some sort. A simple representation, good for one use, takes several hours and a Dexterity + Craft roll of 9+ to create. A permanent representation takes a month of work and a Dexterity + Craft roll of 12+. The representation can only be used by the person who made it.

> ### Penetration Example
>
> For example, Mari Amwithig wants to be able to cast Agony of the Beast on the dragon that has been causing problems for the covenant. She has a Penetration score of 3, specialized in Perdo, so it is effectively 4. That would typically give her a Penetration of around 20, because she can expect to exceed the spell level by 16 on most rolls. That isn't enough to affect the dragon.
>
> The first thing she does is obtain an Arcane Connection to the dragon, and fix it in the laboratory. This gives her a bonus of +4 to the Penetration multiplier, so now her Penetration score is multiplied by 5 (1 + 4) when determining her penetration bonus. Her typical penetration is now around 36, which is better but still not quite good enough, she thinks.
>
> Mari's player argues that dragons have horoscopes just like anyone else, and the storyguide agrees. Unfortunately, Mari has no idea when, or even if, the dragon was born, so she can only make a daily horoscope. That increases the Penetration multiplier by +1, so her Penetration score is now multiplied by 6. This makes her typical Penetration total 40.
> 
> Mari has also Mastered the spell (see page 225) and taken the Penetration Mastery special ability. She has a score of 1 in the Mastery Ability for the spell, and this adds to her Penetration score, so that instead of multiplying 4 by 6, she multiplies 5 (4 for Penetration, 1 for the Mastery Ability) by 6. This raises her typical penetration total to 46, which she thinks will be enough to get the dragon's attention. Arcane Connection and horoscope in hand, she sets off.

