## Magic Resistance

Most human beings have no Magic Resistance. If the target of a spell has no Magic Resistance, then he suffers its effects no matter how low the Penetration total, even if it is negative. Humans can gain general Magic Resistance from three sources: the Divine, the Infernal, and Hermetic magic. No other magical or faerie powers are able to provide general Magic Resistance to humans, but creatures with a Might score have Magic Resistance equal to their Might (see page 427).

Hermetic magi have a base Magic Resistance equal to their score in the Form most applicable to the spell cast. In case of doubt, Vim is a safe default. Thus, a maga attacked with magical fire would have Magic Resistance at least equal to her Ignem score. Since all Hermetic magi have a score of at least 0 in every Form, a maga never has a Magic Resistance of less than zero.

If the target of a spell has Magic Resistance of 0, she is only affected if the Penetration total is 1 or greater. Thus, Magic Resistance 0 is substantially better than no Magic Resistance.

### Parma Magica

The Parma Magica, Bonisagus's great invention, is an Ability that grants Magic Resistance that adds to the resistance arising from a maga's Form scores.

Parma Magica adds Magic Resistance equal to five times the maga's score in the Ability to the resistance based on her Forms. It takes two minutes to perform the Parma Magica ritual, and the Magic Resistance granted lasts until sunset or sunrise, whichever comes first. A magus can suppress his Parma by concentrating, and this also suppresses his Form resistance. This suppression lasts for as long as the magus concentrates, which takes the same effort as concentration on maintaining a spell, and leaves him with no Magic Resistance against anything.

An unconscious magus may not suppress his Parma, and thus has his full resistance against all magic, even helpful magic. His Parma will go down naturally at sunrise or sunset, at which point he has only the resistance based on his Forms. There is no way for an unconscious magus to lower his Form resistance.

A magus may also protect one other person for each point in Parma Magica, with their consent. He must touch each person to start the protection, and it lasts as long as at least one character can see the other. The magus may cancel the protection at will, at any distance.

While a magus is protecting others, his effective Parma Magica score is reduced by 3 points, both for himself and for the other people he is protecting. If the magus has a Parma Magica score of 3 or lower, his Parma Magica provides each character, including himself, with a Magic Resistance of 0. In the magus's case, this is added to his Form resistance, and a magus protected by another magus's Parma Magica may also add his Form resistance.

### Awareness of Attack

If a spell is stopped by Magic Resistance, the target knows that some effect has been stopped, but knows nothing about it. If a spell penetrates her Magic Resistance, she gets no warning other than any obvious effects the spell has. A very subtle spell might well go completely unnoticed if cast successfully.

### The Functioning of Magic Resistance

Magic Resistance keeps magic away from the maga, her clothing, and other items that are very close to her. It does not dispel magic.

Spells cast with Personal Range do not have to overcome the caster's own Magic Resistance. Spells cast with any other Range, even if cast by the maga on herself, do have to overcome the caster's own Magic Resistance.

If the maga is the Individual target of the spell, a resisted spell simply fails to work. If she is part of a Group or large Target, the spell fails to work on her, but may affect other people within the target.

If the target of the spell is a magical thing, which then attempts to damage the maga, the spell works, but the created thing is unable to affect the maga unless it Penetrates her Magic Resistance.

Things that are created and sustained by magic (anything not created as a mundane thing by a Ritual spell) are magical for these purposes. Things moved by magic can cross the resistance, but their motion cannot, unless the spell Penetrates the Magic Resistance.

In all the following examples, the Penetration of the magical effect is assumed to be equal to or lower than the maga's Magic Resistance.

A mind control spell targeted at the maga alone fails.

A mind control spell targeted at a group including the maga fails to affect the maga, but may affect other members of the group.

A jet of magical water parts around the maga, and she does not even get wet.

A jet of normal water driven by magic reaches the maga and makes her wet, but has no force of impact, as the magical power cannot pass her resistance.

A quantity of normal water magically raised over the maga's head and dropped makes her wet and strikes with impact, because it is not being moved by magic when it reaches the maga.

A magical rock thrown at the maga bounces off her resistance, and the maga feels nothing beyond the warning that something has been successfully resisted.

A normal rock turned into a large boulder by a Muto spell bounces off her resistance, as above.

A large boulder turned into a pebble by a Muto spell bounces off her resistance, as above.

A normal rock continuously propelled by magic stops at her skin or clothes. The maga feels the warning that something has been resisted, and also feels the rock touching her (before it falls), but she is not struck by the rock. It is as if the rock had been moved up against her as slowly and carefully as possible.

A mundane rock launched upwards by magic so that when it falls, it will fall on the maga is not resisted. By the time it strikes the maga, its motion is natural, due to gravity, rather than magical. However, such a rock must be aimed (see below).

If the maga steps onto a magical bridge, it remains and will bear her weight.

If the maga falls onto a magical bridge, she is stopped by the bridge, and takes falling damage.

If the magical bridge falls onto the maga, it is stopped, but does her no damage.

If a maga falls into a pit full of magical spikes, she either slides around the spikes if there is room, or finishes lying on top of them if there is not. She takes normal falling damage, but no damage from the spikes.

The maga cannot see an invisible character, as the species (see Imaginem, page 209) are destroyed before reaching her.

An invisible character cannot touch or exert physical force on the maga, even if the invisibility spell had Personal Range. The maga feels the warning that something has been resisted, but feels nothing else. See the magical bridge examples, earlier, for further discussion.

The maga can see an illusion, as the species emitted are natural rather than magical. She gets no indication that it is an illusion.

The maga can see a magically-created object, as the object generates normal species.

The maga sees something affected by a Rego Imaginem spell in the location intended by the spell, as the species are no longer under magical influence when they reach her.

An illusion cast on the maga fails.

### Aiming

A maga may want to cast a spell that affects something else, and only indirectly affects the target. In this case, the target's Magic Resistance is irrelevant, as the spell does not target her. However, while spells always hit their targets, indirect effects may not reach the true target; they must be aimed. If a spell is resisted, as above, it need not be aimed. If it is not resisted, it must be aimed.

**AIMING ROLL: Perception + Finesse + Die**

The die is a stress die if the maga is under stress, a simple die otherwise. Treat the total as an attack total (see Combat on page 393). If the 'attack' hits, the spell effect is in the right place; what effect this has depends on the spell. The magus does not generate an Attack Advantage even if the spell inflicts damage; the damage is determined by rolling a stress die and adding the spell's damage bonus, and comparing it to the target's Soak Total + stress die.

If the direct target of the spell is a basic Individual for the Form in question (see page 310), there is no bonus to the aiming roll. For every step larger, and thus for every magnitude added to the spell, the aiming roll gets a +6 bonus. It is hard to miss a single person when you create a pit the size of a church.

For extreme cases, the troupe should use its judgment and may change the bonus. For example, a basic Individual in Auram could be a cloud 100 paces across, which should grant a large bonus to aiming, while a gemstone created two steps larger than a basic Individual is still only 10 inches or so across, and so should probably grant no bonus at all.

#### Bypassing Magic Resistance

The following are examples of spells that bypass the ultimate victim's Magic Resistance, and thus need to be aimed.

- Moving a boulder over the victim's head with Rego Terram, and then dropping it.
- Destroying the earth underneath her feet so that she falls into a pit.
- Creating a wooden box around her so that she cannot see or move.
- Changing the earth under her feet into mud, so that she sinks. Note that she will not get muddy unless the spell penetrates her Magic Resistance, as the mud is a magical substance which is kept away from her.
- Destroying all the air around her so that she cannot breathe (briefly, but enough to force a Concentration roll), and suffers some damage from the surrounding air rushing in to fill the vacuum.

> #### Projectiles and Rego Magic
>
> The laws of physics in Mythic Europe conform to medieval ideas, not modern ones. The differences are often unimportant, but they become significant when a magus uses Rego spells to throw projectiles or to drop heavy objects from a height. The physics (or "natural philosophy" as characters would call it) of Mythic Europe is described in more detail in *Art & Academe*. This insert clarifies a narrow topic: how to use Rego spells as a form of attack.
>
> In fact, there are three different ways Rego magic may be used offensively.
>
> The first way is to use magic to propel the projectile all the way to the target. In this case, the motive force of the projectile is entirely due to magic. Magic Resistance would protect against this form of attack. The projectile would stop harmlessly at the edge of the target's Magic Resistance. This sort of spell does not need to be aimed.
>
> The second form of attack is to exploit what philosophers call "natural motion:" the natural tendency of heavy objects to fall downward. A magus could use Rego magic to levitate a rock over someone's head and then cancel the spell. The rock would naturally fall and would bypass Magic Resistance. Such a spell would need to be aimed.
> 
> The third way is to use a brief jolt of magical force to hurl a projectile as an arrow is thrown from a bow. Medieval natural philosophy did offer an explanation for how an arrow could continue moving after it leaves the bow. To over-simplify (in the interest of brevity), it involves the motion of air around the arrow. Magi can devise spells that hurl projectiles in this manner. Only specially-designed Rego spells can throw projectiles this way — the spell's description must explicitly state that it can throw projectiles (these spells are higher magnitude than generic Rego spells). Spells that throw a projectile release control of it immediately after launching it. The projectile then continues on a natural trajectory. In game terms, this means the spell must be aimed, but the projectile bypasses Magic Resistance. The Range of the spell need only be Touch (the magic only needs to act at the moment the projectile is thrown), but once launched, the projectile is subject to the natural laws of motion. The aiming roll suffers a range penalty just like a missile weapon does (page 395) and the projectile can go no farther than it could be thrown by a very powerful mundane bow (or sling, catapult, or other device). Most projectiles thrown by spells have a range increment of 20 paces.

