# Chapter 12: Realms

Magic is the supernatural basis of **Ars Magica**, but it is not the only power in Mythic Europe. Four realms of power exist: Magic, Divine, Faerie, and Infernal.

There also exists the mundane, that which is not supernatural. The lines between realms are not drawn simply, with some on one side and others representing a united opposition. Rather, each has some influence over the rest.

Each realm has a distinctive aura, which covers some areas of the world. Within an aura, one realm is stronger than the others, and this local strength affects the use of the powers of other realms. These auras vary in strength, and some only appear at particular times or under particular circumstances.

Creatures can be linked to a realm in one of two ways. The closer link is referred to as 'belonging to' or 'being part of' a realm. These creatures are drawn from the realm's nature, and embody some aspect of its power. The more distant link is referred to as 'alignment' or 'affiliation'. A creature that is affiliated to a realm can draw on the powers of that realm, but is not drawn from the realm's nature. A creature that belongs to a realm cannot be affiliated with any other realm. Most creatures belong to no realm, and can affiliate to more than one. Magi, for example, are affiliated to the realm of Magic but do not belong to it. Christian, Jewish, or Islamic magi are affiliated to the Magic realm and the Divine realm, but, again, belong to neither. While it is possible for animals, plants, or even stones, to become affiliated to a realm, this is most common for human beings. All kinds of creatures belong to the various realms.

No human being belongs to a realm. It is possible for a human affiliated to a realm to transform and become part of that realm, but the person apparently loses their humanity in the process. There are faeries, demons, and spirits that were once human, but the Divine realm never transforms human beings in this world. Perhaps the saints after death become part of the Divine realm, but there is no way to know.

