## Vis Sources

Raw vis (see page 212) can often be found in supernatural auras. Sometimes it is found in the bodies of creatures with Might, sometimes it is found in plants, or rocks, or even in the breeze. Often, once the vis has been gathered, it does not get replaced naturally. Sometimes, however, it is possible to take a certain number of pawns of vis from a place every year. These places are known as vis sources, and they are among a covenant's most important assets.

A vis source can produce vis associated with any Art, but a single vis source normally produces a single kind of vis. Vis sources can also produce any amount of vis, although sources providing more than six pawns per year are rare. Some vis sources produce a varying number of pawns each year, but normally somewhere between one and ten.

The vis produced by a vis source needs to be gathered. Sometimes this is a simple matter. The vis might be in the three golden acorns that appear on a tree, and all that is required is to pick those three acorns. Sometimes it is easy provided that you can detect vis. The vis might take the form of ordinary-looking leaves on the tree, so that you have to know which are vis to know which to pick. Finally, spells might be needed to gather the vis at all. For example, the vis might be in the breeze that blows through the branches of the tree at sunrise on the summer solstice.

### Sample Vis Sources

- Golden acorns on a tree (Creo, Herbam, Terram)
- The bones of people buried in an old pagan graveyard, as long as they were buried within the last year. (Perdo, Corpus, Mentem)
- The first ice to form on a pond in winter. (Rego, Aquam)
- The chrysalis cases of butterflies in a magical forest. (Muto, Animal, Imaginem)
- The echoes of a shout in a particular valley at a particular time. (Intellego, Imaginem)
- The wind fanning a fire in a magical forest. (Auram, Ignem)
- Stones in strange shapes, found in a deep labyrinth of caves. (Imaginem, Terram, Vim)
- Crystals that diffract the light in dazzling and beautiful ways, growing on the peak of a mountain. (Ignem, Imaginem, Vim)
- Catkins that look like kittens in moonlight. (Animal)
- Dust that gathers over months on a cobweb in a particular location in the covenant. (Vim)

### Tainted Vis

Vis found in non-Magic auras may be tainted by its aura of origin. Faerie vis is generally safe for magi to use, although sometimes it may have strange side effects. It does not, however, tend to distort spells or have bad effects on the magi using it. More details can be found in *Realms of Power: Faerie*, pages 18–19.

Divine vis makes most magi nervous. First, gathering it often has the potential to annoy the Church. Second, using it in magic seems somehow sacrilegious to many magi, who'd rather not invite Divine retribution.

Infernal vis is avoided by all sensible magi. It tends to twist any project to evil ends, and slowly corrupt a magus's personality as he works with it. At the very least, using Infernally tainted vis adds twice as many botch dice as usual to spellcasting, and requires a roll on the experimental results chart for an enchanted item. Magi should be very wary of discoveries made while working with Infernal vis. For information on just how bad it can get, see *Realms of Power: The Infernal*, pages 18–19.

---

> Within hallowed halls at the heart of the Order, scholars pore over ancient tomes, our quills scratching across parchment as we unravel the threads that bind magic to the mortal world. An honored lecturer stands before our rapt audience. With a flourish he casts an intricate illusion, magic shimmering like heat haze, as the terrifying form of an infernal creature hangs suspended in the air before us all. He orates at length, gesturing to its vicious claws and burning eyes, dissecting its nature and weaknesses to our approving nods and voluminous notes. In such works we carefully chronicle the depth and breadth of all scholarship, even knowing that after our Final Twilight only legends will endure, the echoes of myth and magic  lingering long across the ages.

