## The Nature of the Realms

All four realms are inter-related, and Hermetic theorists have debated the nature of these relations for centuries. It is generally agreed that the Divine realm is more powerful than the other three, possibly infinitely so. As Hermetic magi make use of the power of the Magic realm, they tend to see that realm as more important than the Faerie and Infernal realms. There are two popular views of the relationship between the realms in the Order, one inspired by Platonic philosophy, the other by Aristotelian.

The Platonic view sees the Divine realm as the source of light and being for the universe. The Magic realm is the first emanation of the Divine realm, pure light as emitted from the divine being. The Faerie and Infernal realms both arise from the interaction of the divine light with human beings.

The Faerie realm is the reflection of this light from the minds and souls of humankind, while the Infernal realm is the shadow cast by humanity. Thus the Faerie realm tends to make the stories and dreams of humanity real, while the Infernal contains all of humanity's flaws made concrete.

The Aristotelian view sees things slightly differently. The Divine is pure actuality, ultimate existence. The Magic realm is the process of coming into existence, and thus always below the Divine but always getting closer. The Faerie realm is the actualization of the imagination of human beings, while the Infernal is the process of going out of existence. Thus, demons always seek to destroy.

Hermetic theorists have also come up with much more personal theories, but most magi hold some version of one of the two accounts given here, when they think about the issue at all.

Those theologians who give serious thought to the issue tend to have a slightly different view of the issue. They see the Divine as the supernatural realm, the mundane as the natural realm, and Magic, Faerie, and Infernal as together making up the preternatural realm. Opinions are divided as to whether the three components of the preternatural realm are actually distinct, and thus over whether there is really any difference between the Infernal and the Magical. Even among those who accept that the three preternatural realms are truly distinct, there is a debate over whether magic is sinful, and incompatible with a truly spiritual life, in itself.

