## Realm Auras

The realms exist and interact in various ways. Each has some parts of the world where its powers are strongest. Such areas are said to have an aura, which can be rated in power on a scale from 1 to 10. Most auras rate between 1 and 5, while very intense auras may have a strength of 6 to 10. An aura rating of 10 often designates a gateway to the realm of its affiliation. The aura rating of a given area usually acts as a modifier on supernatural activities that take place there. Many areas of the world have no realm affiliation, and therefore no aura. These places are mundane.

Within a supernatural area, the aura rating is usually uniform, but occasionally energy is unevenly concentrated, causing variable aura ratings. Sometimes conditions result in the development of regiones, areas of increasingly powerful aura sharing a single physical location (see "Regiones" on page 420).

Two realms may have influence over the same place. When this is the case, only the stronger can hold sway at any one time. A change in the relative strengths of the two realms can cause an area to switch from the influence of one to the other. For example, a village might be built on the site of an ancient faerie mound. Normally, the area has a Dominion aura (because the villagers are followers of the Church). However, at night (when Dominion power wanes) or on the days of ancient pagan holidays the Faerie aura becomes more powerful and holds sway. Sometimes only a small area, like the cellar of a tavern, feels the touch of a power different from that of its surroundings.

### Realm Interaction

The aura of a given place affects all supernatural activities that go on in that place. The list below defines how aura ratings affect various activities. The Realm Interaction chart that follows indicates the degree to which realms influence powers of other realms. The modifiers shown apply to the effect an aura has on any supernatural act performed within it.

Auras also affect the number of botch rolls for an attempted supernatural act in a foreign realm. For each point of aura rating, roll an extra botch die. Use the original aura rating, not that obtained after multiplying by a factor in the Realm Interaction chart.

#### Realm Interaction Table

| Aura     | Magic Power  | Divine Power | Faerie Power | Infernal Power |
| -------- | ------------ | ------------ | ------------ | -------------- |
| Magic    | + aura       | no effect    | + (1/2 aura) | – aura         |
| Divine   | – (3 x aura) | + aura       | – (4 x aura) | – (5 x aura)   |
| Faerie   | + (1/2 aura) | no effect    | + aura       | – aura         |
| Infernal | – aura       | no effect    | – (2 x aura) | + aura         |

For example, consider a magus who also has a Faerie-based power to create illusions and a demonic gift causing sickness. His Hermetic spells are based on Magic, his illusions on Faerie, and his sickness power on the Infernal. In a town with a Dominion aura of 3, he must subtract nine from his Hermetic totals, and roll three additional botch dice, twelve from his Faerie illusion totals, with three additional botch dice, and fifteen from his Infernal sickening totals, again with three additional botch dice. If he moves to a forest with a Faerie aura of 4, he adds two to his Hermetic totals, but rolls four additional botch dice, four to his Faerie illusion totals, with no additional botch dice, and subtracts four from his Infernal sickening totals, again with four additional botch dice.

The Divine is not hampered by auras of other kinds. Divine powers have no penalty and no additional botch dice in auras of the other realms.

> ### Supernatural Activity Rolls Modified by Aura
>
> SPELLCASTING: The aura modifier modifies the Casting Score.
>
> LABORATORY ACTIVITIES: The aura modifier modifies the Lab Total.
>
> ABILITY ROLLS: The aura modifier affects supernatural Abilities such as Second Sight, or Wilderness Sense. Most such abilities are Magical in origin, although in particular cases they may be Faerie, Infernal, or even Divine.
> 
> MAGIC RESISTANCE: Magic Resistance is altered by the aura modifier. This includes Hermetic Magic Resistance due to the Parma Magica and Forms, as well as the resistance of creatures with supernatural Might. Thus, a magus in a Magic aura of 4 has a +4 bonus to his Magic Resistance, while a demon has a -4 penalty.
>
> PENETRATION: For magi and characters with mystical abilities, the aura modifies the roll to use the ability, which means that Penetration is modified. The aura modifier does not apply to Penetration twice. Thus, a magus in a Divine aura of 2 takes a –6 penalty to his Casting Score. This automatically reduces his Penetration, as that is calculated by subtracting the spell level from the Casting Score. The aura modifier is not subtracted again from the Penetration total. For supernatural creatures, there is no roll to use the ability (see page 426), so the aura modifier applies to Penetration directly.

