## Creatures of a Realm

The appearance of a creature is influenced, but not determined, by the realm to which it belongs. The details on each of the realms, below, provide further information on this. A creature's realm of origin does, however, strongly affect the way it interacts with human beings. Creatures of the Infernal are always interested in corrupting and harming human beings, while creatures of the Magic realm need have no interest in human beings for their own sake. Creatures of the Divine serve God, and thus punish, aid, and reward humanity as commanded. Creatures of Faerie all have some relationship with human beings, but the nature of this relationship can vary wildly.

A talking dog, for example, could belong to any of the four realms. As a Faerie, it might be the perfect hunting dog, leading its master on apparently impossible hunts and lending its powers to ensure success. As an Infernal beast, it would try to corrupt its master, leading him into evil. A Divine talking dog would be a companion to its master, offering guidance, but also driving him back from sin by force if necessary. Finally, a Magical talking dog might have no interest at all in human beings, being interested only in hunting for its food in the wilderness.

### Magic Resistance and Penetration

Most creatures that belong to a realm have a Might Score, which represents their power. The creature's Might Score is the maximum level. Might points are also spent to invoke supernatural abilities, and Might Pool is the amount of Might that a creature has remaining. Magic Resistance and Penetration are both based on a creature's Might Score.

**CREATURE MAGIC RESISTANCE: Might Score + Aura Modifier**

**CREATURE PENETRATION: Might Score – (5 x Might Points spent on power) + Penetration Bonus + Aura Modifier**

Magic Resistance based on might functions like Hermetic resistance, resisting the powers of all realms, and all types of supernatural power.

Characters with supernatural abilities other than Hermetic magic also have Penetration.

**CHARACTER PENETRATION: Effect Roll – Ease Factor + Penetration Bonus + Aura Modifier**

The Penetration bonus is calculated in the same way as for Hermetic magi (see Penetration, page 215). Thus, creatures and characters without the Penetration Ability have a Penetration bonus of zero.

