## The Magic Realm

The Magic realm is often characterized as 'the way the world could be'. Magical things are simply better than the mundane versions, but they are better versions of mundane things, not completely new things. There are often many ways in which a thing could be better, and magical things better in each of those ways exist. *Realms of Power: Magic* provides more detail on this realm.

### Magical Creatures

Many magical creatures look like particularly fine specimens of mundane things, and although they may have surprising abilities, such as intelligence or the ability to move, these abilities are always suitable to the kind of creature in question. The abilities of magical creatures are explicable, at least after the event, in terms of the abilities of the mundane version, although those abilities may be somewhat hidden. For example, goat's blood can dissolve diamonds, but this ability is only obvious in magical goats. Magical animals, so-called beasts of virtue (see Realms of Power: Magic, pages 55-68), are the most obvious magical creatures, but there are also magical plants, most notably among the trees, and elementals, described in the Bestiary chapter. On the whole, magical animals tend to be more intelligent and have more personality than magical plants, which in turn are superior to elementals in those respects. Some magical creatures are shapechangers, and some of these can take on human form. The human form is almost never the natural form of a shapechanger who belongs to the Magic realm, however. The shapechangers are wolves who can become human, and so on.

The Magic realm also encompasses a wide range of spirits. Some are spirits of natural substances, such as water and fire. These are generally classed with elementals, although there is a difference in that elementals are essentially physical, while spirits of the elements are essentially spiritual. Since spirits of the elements can generally create the physical element, this distinction is only of importance to Hermetic magi deciding which Form to use to affect a creature. Other magic spirits include spirits of natural places and natural phenomena, such as the spirit of a mountain or of storms. Many powerful magical spirits can take on any form they wish, including human form, and some have powers based on several aspects of the Magic realm. These spirits are normally completely indifferent to human beings, but some enter into mutually profitable arrangements, particularly with humans who are affiliated to the Magic realm in the first place.

Powerful spirits may take on forms that are completely alien to human beings, and any creature that is powerful, alien, and indifferent to human beings is part of the Magic realm. Such creatures are very rare, but they do exist.

Human beings who have been transformed to become part of the Magic realm are rare, but make up an important group of the realm's inhabitants. Some of them are undead, such as ghosts and animated corpses, although it is just as common for such creatures to be part of the Faerie or Infernal realms. Others still appear human, but are not. Still others have taken on different forms. Finally, some have become powerful spirits. These creatures of magic have more interest in humans than most others, as they were once human themselves. Some within the Order believe that Hermes was originally a great human magician, who became a spirit and was worshiped as a god by the Greeks and Romans.

It is relatively common for human beings to have supernatural powers that derive from the Magic realm, and thus to be affiliated with that realm. Hermetic magi are the most obvious example, but *Hedge Magic Revised Edition* and *Rival Magic*, along with many other supplements, contain further examples. There are human shapechangers who can change into wolves, but the magical ones are affiliated with the realm, rather than belonging to it.

### Magical Auras

Magical areas are places that are more real than those around them. Sometimes, after the working of powerful magic or the death of a powerful creature, places acquire a magical aura, but most of the time it is unclear why a certain place is magical. Most magical areas have an aura from 1 to 5. Legendary places are rated around 6, while auras of strength 10 are virtually unknown.

Magical areas are intense. Colors are more striking, sounds more piercing, the day brighter, the night deeper. Magical creatures are particularly common within them, although mobile creatures can wander elsewhere. Immobile magical creatures, such as magical trees, are almost never found outside a magical aura.

Almost all covenants are located in magical areas, usually with aura ratings of 1 to 5. More powerful areas are not only rare but extremely dangerous to live in. The powerful magic there is difficult and dangerous to harness, and mundane covenfolk become warped and strange. Apprentices are often overpowered. Because of this threat, only the most powerful covenants in Hermetic history have based themselves in such places. Powerful Magic auras are even richer in vis than normal ones, however, so magi often want to visit such places.

Magical auras do not tend to have cyclical variations in strength with time, in the way that other auras do, nor do they depend on the surroundings, like Faerie auras. Much more detail is available in chapter 2 of *Realms of Power: Magic*.

#### Sources of Magical Auras

There are two main ways in which Magical auras arise: from the arrangement of the world, and from magical activities. Weak Magical auras arise in places where the world has naturally become a particularly fine example of something. A perfect mountain, spectacular and ancient forest, and a vigorous active volcano might all acquire a weak Magical aura, normally 1 and certainly no higher than 2. Stronger auras arise from combinations of a superb location and auspicious astrological alignments, or from a combination of excellent examples of the natural world. For example, a coastal valley hemmed in by mountains, in which great storms often happen and which faces the midsummer sunrise might have a Magical aura as high as 4. These alignments never produce an aura higher than 5, at least not by themselves, and such places are popular sites for covenants, as they are easier to find than the other kind.

Magical auras can also arise from magical activities. If a moderately powerful (Might 30 or more) magical creature takes up residence in an area, that place will, over the course of years, acquire a weak Magical aura. Similarly, a place where magicians constantly work magic slowly acquires an aura if it did not already have one. More powerful magical creatures and more powerful magical events create stronger auras, but generally no stronger than level 5.

Auras above level 5 almost always result from a combination of good location and magical activities. If a covenant were established in a location with a natural aura of 5, the aura would rise over the course of decades, but not, in general, any higher than 7. The very highest Magical auras result from spectacular magical events, such as a spectacular magical fight between two powerful magical creatures in which one of the creatures was killed, or the creation of a magical effect worthy of legend. Such events can create an aura of 2 or 3 in a previously mundane area, and if they take place in a location that already has a strong Magical aura they can push it to the highest levels.

### The Magic World

There is great debate within the Order of Hermes over the existence of a magical equivalent to Arcadia, Heaven, and Hell. Most magi think that there must be one, and some even claim to have visited it. Others think that those magi have either visited a powerful Magical regio, or have decided to lie. It is rather difficult to see how a magus could distinguish a large powerful regio from a part of a whole magical world, which tends to prolong the debate.

Other magi hold that, while there is a Magic world, it cannot be visited. Some say that it is the realm of Twilight, so it cannot be visited safely, others that it is the realm of the Platonic Forms, where the perfect exemplars for all earthly things are found. Still others argue that, as the Magic realm is constituted by striving towards the Divine, or by the first emanation from the Divine, the Magic world is Heaven. Some of these also believe that Twilight is the Magic world, so that Final Twilight is a way for magi to enter Heaven.

As described in chapter 3 of *Realms of Power: Magic*, there is a Magic world, and Hermetic magi could visit it. They simply have not, in 1220. The magi in your saga might well be the first.

