## The Infernal Realm

The Infernal realm is the embodiment of evil and decay — of physical destruction and moral corruption. Even as the Church works its divine power to protect the soul and buoy it up to Heaven after the body's death, the forces of the Devil work to steal it away and drag it to the depths of Hell.

Human beings are subject to death and damnation through the sins of their ancestral parents. Once Adam and Eve had tasted the fruit of the Tree of Knowledge of Good and Evil, all the world came under Satan's influence.

Demons are fallen angels; they cannot and will not be redeemed because of their very natures. They comprehend the divine order completely and so can never be convinced by new arguments or perspectives to seek salvation. Their envy of humanity's place in the cosmos is without bounds, as is their capacity for evil as rejection of all that is from God. Ultimately, devils seek to weigh down souls with the baggage of sin. They have an eternity to plot and scheme, and a human lifetime is a brief moment in their eyes. Fortunately for humanity, they are completely without virtue, including the virtues of patience and self-control, which makes it hard for them to sustain elaborate plans.

Hell's most potent allies are diabolists, humans who sell their souls in return for powers and favors on Earth. Not only do devils win these souls away from the Divine, they are also able to satisfy their lust for chaos, destruction and suffering through these human agents. The powers that diabolists are awarded can include spell-like abilities and the capacity to summon demons and use them to their own ends, among other things. Diabolists are not completely without virtue, and are indeed capable of redemption, which means that they can provide the patience and self-control that demons lack.

Not surprisingly, the Order of Hermes forbids dealings with demonkind. Any member caught engaging in diabolism is renounced and singled out for destruction. Furthermore, the Church brings down great punishments on those thought or known to be in league with the Devil.

Hell is not a remote force in Mythic Europe. Demons ruin crops, cause back pains, make the wind howl, and manipulate emotions. Some theologians suggest that it is impossible to drop a needle from the roof of a house without hitting an invisible demon in pursuit of a plan of evil.

More details on the Infernal and all its works can be found in *Realms of Power: The Infernal*.

### Infernal Oreatures

The natural forms of infernal creatures are almost always twisted, vile, and terrifying, the better to inspire fear and loathing in human beings. However, many demons can also take on attractive forms. Different sorts of attraction are better for different temptations, a beautiful young woman is good for luring a man into lust, but an apparently wise old man might be better to lure someone into heresy.

The lies of creatures that belong to the Infernal realm cannot be detected by the powers of the Magic realm. Deceit is a central part of their nature, and hard to overcome. Some diabolists claim that infernal power can pierce infernal lies, but most magi believe that the demons are lying to their servants. The Divine can pierce infernal deceptions, and it seems that some faeries can also do so. This ability to lie with impunity also makes demons hard to detect; they can choose to tell the magic that they are not there, and the magic will believe them.

This does not mean that it is impossible to spot demonic lies by any means. Normal investigation will still reveal whether things are as a demon says, unless the demon has made the effort to fake mundane information as well.

### Infernal Auras

Infernal areas are among the most vile places in the world. Growth of natural plants is stunted and warped. Decay and the stench of ill humors abound. Predatory animals kill, not for survival, but for the pleasure of inflicting pain. Most earthbound demons, and many diabolists, prefer to remain in such areas. They are also typical sites for diabolic churches and covens, and for the summoning of demons.

Travelers in or near Infernal areas often find themselves in foul moods. Outlaws on nearby roads act in particularly harsh fashion—the effects of demonic influence in high concentration. Old wounds, especially those received through malevolence, hurt anew. Old conflicts and personality clashes are remembered again, and possibly re-enacted. Of greater concern to magi, Infernal auras interfere with the use of magic.

Infernal auras can be detected by magic, unless an infernal creature is actively hiding their existence. They also tend to reduce in strength during the day, and particularly on holy days, and to increase in power at night. Infernal auras are particularly strong on Easter Saturday, the day between the Crucifixion and the Resurrection. More detail can be found in *Realms of Power: The Infernal*, pages 10–17.

#### Sources of Infernal Auras

Infernal auras arise from sinful activities and from the activities of demons and diabolists. Minor sins, of the sort that people commit every day, do not create an Infernal aura, fortunately. More serious sins, such as vicious murders, or elaborate schemes to corrupt someone, can leave a trace. A single sin only creates an aura if it is particularly vile. The calculated desecration of a church, including the ritual murder of the priest on the altar, might replace the church's Divine aura with a level 1 Infernal aura. In an area with no aura, a cruel and premeditated murder can create a level 1 aura. Repeated sins in one place create Infernal auras, even if the individual sins are less serious. For example, if a pair of adulterers met every couple of days in the same room in order to indulge their sin, that room would slowly acquire a weak Infernal aura, which might reach level 2 if the affair continued for long enough. Repeated ritual sacrifices of human beings to demons, extending over many decades, could create an Infernal aura as high as 5.

Infernal auras also arise from the presence of infernal creatures or the use of infernal powers, in much the same way as for Magical auras. Combining repeated sin with the use of infernal powers can create the highest Infernal auras of all.

