## The Faerie Realm

Faeries are creatures drawn in some way from the stories of the human race. They are thus as varied and diverse as stories, and can be found anywhere from the depths of the wilderness to the centers of cities, from ancient pagan temples to the newest cathedral.

The realm of Faerie is as diverse and strange as those who inhabit it, and as with all faerie things, appearances can be deceiving. After dawn breaks, a pile of gold may prove nothing more than old leaves, while a single oak leaf can hold within it more magical power than the enchanted staff of a mighty magus.

Much more detail about the Faerie realm can be found in *Realms of Power: Faerie*.

### Faerie Creatures

The special relationship that faeries have to humanity means that all faeries are interested in people. They are interested in having humans play out their stories, because faeries gain energy, called Vitality, when this happens. Unlike demons, they do not want humans to be corrupted or destroyed for the sake of corruption, but some faeries do want humans to suffer, if the story calls for it. Other faeries live in imitation or mockery of human beings, and they respond to human intruders as appropriate to their role, bringing the visitors into their story.

Not all faeries know that they are telling a story, and the faerie may be the victim in a story. For example, a faerie may be the giant that is tricked by a clever mortal child. In that case, the faerie, consciously or unconsciously, arranges things so that the child can trick it and survive. If it catches the child or sees through the trick, it does not get any Vitality. This close link to stories means that faeries are very hard to predict if you do not know what their story is — and very easy to manipulate if you do. Nevertheless, a faerie that tells the story of the Wild Hunt carrying people away and driving them mad may remain very dangerous even when you know exactly what it is.

Faeries cannot truly create or change without mortal assistance. However, a faerie might be able to make wine with a word and change its form from moment to moment, as the wine is actually a transformation of something, and the form of the faerie is essentially mutable. It seems to be absolutely true that faeries cannot reproduce themselves, or learn, without mortal aid, and in these cases things do not even appear otherwise.

Faerie creatures can take any imaginable form. This includes appearing as better versions of mundane animals, but also includes giants, chimerae, and humans with animal features. Since faeries arise from the stories of humanity, it is not uncommon for legends about a magical place to give rise to a faerie copy, more closely matching the beliefs that people have. However, although faeries arise from the beliefs of people, they do not always go away or change to match changing beliefs. Once the faeries exist, they are just as real as any other creature, and can, with the help of humans, develop in unexpected ways.

### Faerie Auras

Areas of faerie power may cover ancient pagan lands, spring up about faerie monarchs, or protect valued locations. They may have only a few inhabitants, each quite powerful. On the other hand, they may be the domiciles of innumerable faeries with little power individually, but whose numbers give them strength enough to be respected and avoided.

Faerie areas with lower level auras tend to be inhabited by faeries that are merely annoying, or barely more than helpful; they are almost never capable of killing. Such places are relatively common wherever mortals have spread their influence. On the other hand, especially in rural areas, there are auras of immense power inhabited by faeries that can will themselves taller than a church spire or shake the Earth's foundation at a command.

Sites of Faerie aura take as many forms as their inhabitants. They might contain talking trees and owls, strange lights at night, and unearthly eyes peering out of the darkness. An aura may exceed the physical bounds of the locale, depending on how far the resident faeries journey or extend their power.

Regardless of the danger, magi often risk entering Faerie areas in pursuit of magical power. They are places rich in vis — reason enough to challenge many perils, particularly for a magus deprived of magical resources.

Faerie auras tend to vary in strength depending on how closely the surrounding world matches the nature of the faeries within. Thus, a Faerie aura inhabited by beautiful faeries of light would reduce in power during winter and at night, and reach its full power on bright summer days. An aura inhabited by faerie miners would lose strength if there were no miners nearby, but return to full power if a mine was opened. More details on Faerie auras can be found in *Realms of Power: Faerie*, pages 14–18.

#### Sources of Faerie Auras

Faerie auras can arise from the presence of faeries or the use of faerie powers in a way similar to the ways that Magical and Infernal auras can arise. Faerie auras also arise when stories are told about a place. The strength of the aura depends on the popularity and number of the stories, but also on what is already in a place. For example, many people in western Mythic Europe tell marvelous stories about Constantinople, but as the city is full of people and churches these stories have not created a Faerie aura there. On the other hand, stories about the strange beings who live in the depths of a forest often create auras, as no-one lives in the forest to say otherwise. The combination of these effects means that Faerie auras are often in wilderness areas, even though faeries depend, in some sense, on human beings.

Faerie auras tend to be higher than other kinds of aura, as the two factors reinforce one another. Faeries in an area tend to inspire stories about the area, which in turn raise the aura and attract, or create, more and more powerful faeries, who in turn inspire more stories.

### The Faerie Realm

The most powerful Faerie sites are sometimes gateways to the Faerie Realm. Such gateways may be small and unassuming, rarely used and little known, or massive entrances traversed by the greatest of faerie entities. Mortals do not naturally belong in the land of the fay, and those who enter often fail to return. Even if they do come back, they may find a day spent in Faerie is one, ten, even a hundred years, or only a minute, in the mundane world. Magi of House Merinita say that the Faerie Realm can be divided into three "regions", although they are not geographic divisions: Arcadia, Elysium, and Eudokia.

Arcadia is best described as stories made real. The impossible city paved with gold is found in Arcadia, as is the enormous forest inhabited by talking animals. Everything plays its role within a story of some sort, and all stories can be found here.

Elysium is the land of myths, the home of gods and heroes, and Eudokia is the land of tales that teach a lesson.

The Faerie Realm is a physical place, but it is also a sphere of pure enchantment and imagination. Movement is not easily described, being more like the half-remembered travels of a dream, and so magi of House Merinita (who know best) scoff at the idea of making a map of it. Like a dream state, Faerieland is often incomprehensible to mortals who go there. There is not always a logical relationship between cause and effect, and it is easy to become totally disoriented, especially as faeries enjoy using their glamor to lead intruders astray. And yet, some Merinita magi insist that the Faerie Realm is not a chaotic place, but merely has its own rules. Whether this is true or not, the realm is best left to faeries, and to the foolish among mortals.

