## The Divine Realm

The Divine realm is the manifestation of the supernatural power of God. The most obvious agent of the Divine in western Europe is the Church, and Divine auras, also called the Dominion, or Dominion auras, surround its buildings. The Church does not have a monopoly on Divine auras, as Jews and Muslims also live within a Dominion aura, which appears indistinguishable from that of the Church. The Church, of course, refuses to believe that Islam has anything to do with God, and has severe doubts about contemporary Judaism.

Regardless of opinions, it cannot be denied that the Divine realm has an influence over the other realms, including that of Magic. A Divine aura limits the efficiency and effectiveness of Hermetic magic, and Divine miracles can accomplish feats that magi cannot.

At its best, the Dominion allows the human soul to express its deepest beauty. At its worst, the Church is a repressive force that treads on liberal thought. It makes sense, then, that it is the Church which is the driving force behind the Crusades while it produces the most delightful music, the most enchanting art, and the most transcendent philosophy.

The power of the Church and the boundaries it imposes on the Order of Hermes cause some magi to scorn the Divine. Some magi find pagan religions, based as they are on Faerie or Magical power, more congenial, while others simply have as little as possible to do with religion. Nevertheless, many magi are Christians, with a scattering of Jews and a significant number of

Muslims in those tribunals which extend over Islamic lands. Some magi even have True Faith (see page 113), which does not seem to hinder their magic.

More detail about the supernatural aspects of the Divine can be found in *Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition* along with information about the three most important Divine religions in Mythic Europe: Christianity, Islam, and Judaism.

### Divine Auras

The Dominion is nearly ubiquitous, and is the only supernatural power that the common folk generally have contact with. It affects magi and their fellows whenever they enter a village, town, or city where there is a place of worship, an ordained priest, and a body of believers.

Though Divine auras are almost always present in areas inhabited by believers, their strength can vary. On Sundays and holy days the power of the Dominion increases; at night and on evil days it wanes. The Dominion is also focused more strongly in places and objects that are strongly associated with faith. People, places, and things that have been blessed by an ordained priest can carry Divine auras, but these are extremely fragile and vanish once exposed to the sinful world. Divine auras somehow transported to another realm are also swallowed by the alien aura.

Entering a strong Divine aura has a definite sensory association. Non-magical people often experience anticipatory nerves and unconscious reverence. Those who are pious feel quiet peace; others feel dread and guilt. Magi and others with magical talents instantly sense a powerful presence, their Gift flickering as a flame exposed to wind. Auras of lesser power might prove a mild irritant to such magical folk, perhaps causing occasional headaches, short tempers and sporadic feelings of physical discomfort.

#### Sources of Divine Auras

Divine auras can arise from the activities or presence of holy creatures, in a manner similar to the ways in which other auras arise. The overwhelming majority of Divine auras, however, arise from the presence of faithful worshipers of the Divine. Typically, the fields around a village would have an aura of 1, while the village itself would have an aura of 2. A town or city would have an aura of 3 over most of the area, possibly lower in areas where sin and vice are common. Most places of worship have an aura of 4, while places with wider significance, such as cathedrals, important mosques, and the churches of major monasteries, have an aura of 5.

Higher Divine auras are very limited in extent. The chapel holding the relics of a very important saint might have an aura of 6, or 7 for relics of Christ or the Virgin Mary. The site of a saint's martyrdom generally has an aura of 8, nine for the martyrdom of an apostle. Divine auras of 10 arise in places where God Himself has intervened in a direct way. The Holy Sepulcher, where Christ was buried, the ka'aba in Mecca, and the last remnants of the Jewish temple in Jerusalem are examples. There are occasional examples elsewhere; for example, the Lady Chapel at Glastonbury Abbey in England was originally consecrated by Christ Himself, and has an aura of 10.

Particular Divine auras may depart from these guidelines, as God makes them where and how He wants. However, the guidelines given here are the ones that He normally seems to follow. While He could withdraw all of the Divine aura from a cathedral, He almost never does so. For more details on Divine auras, see *Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition*, pages 10–17.

### True Faith

Those who give up mundane pursuits entirely and selflessly dedicate themselves to leading holy lives benefit from True Faith. True Faith is measured in Faith Points, which represent a person's connection to God. Those with True Faith may be Jewish, Christian, or Muslim, and, it seems, need not be wholly orthodox.

True Faith, like Confidence, has a Score and Points. Taking the True Faith Major Virtue grants you a True Faith Score of 1, and a single Faith Point. Only by possessing the True Faith Major Virtue may a character have a True Faith score. Any character may possess any number of Faith Points (gained through the sacraments, a pilgrimage, or other holy endeavors) that once spent, do not return.

You may spend Faith Points like Confidence Points (and may spend as many Faith Points at once as your True Faith Score), as long as you are acting in accordance with God's will. If you do not possess a True Faith Score, then you may only spend one Faith Point at a time.

A character with Faith Points but no True Faith Score does not benefit from Magic Resistance. A character with a True Faith Score gains Magic Resistance equal to this score multiplied by ten.

**TRUE FAITH MAGIC RESISTANCE: True Faith Score X 10**

Each dawn, you regain a number of Faith Points up to your True Faith Score, although if you already have more Faith Points than your True Faith Score, you do not gain additional Points.

For more details on True Faith, see *Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition*, page 56.

### Relics

Relics are physical objects that, in some way, house part of the power of the Divine. They are most common in Christianity, and often take the form of parts of the bodies of deceased saints. All relics have a number of common powers, listed below:

1. FAITH: All relics contain a True Faith score, giving it Faith Points that may be used by its bearer as Confidence. A relic also grants Magic Resistance equal to ten times its True Faith score to its bearer. A person can only benefit from one relic at a time, any attempt to do otherwise is a sin, and means that they lose the benefits of all relics. However, a person can humbly carry other relics, while only relying on one for the benefits. A character who normally relies on a particular relic would need a very good reason to swap it for another one.
2. DIVINE MIGHT: All relics have a Divine Might score, which limits how often their powers may be used (effectively preventing characters from over-using their powers). The Might score also acts as Magic Resistance for the relic against any spells or supernatural effects that target it directly. A relic's Divine Might is equal to the relic's Faith score (or highest Faith score, if more than one applies) multiplied by 10, and the Might Pool is refreshed with every sunrise.
3. SCOURCING THE INFERNAL: As supremely holy items, relics are anathema to demons and their followers. Relics radiate an aura of hostility to such creatures that extends a number of feet equal to the Might score of the relic. Any creatures belonging to the Infernal realm that seek to enter this aura will be unable to do so if their Infernal Might does not exceed the Divine Might of the relic. Should they succeed in entering the aura, every round that they remain within it they will be assailed by divine energies causing an amount of damage equal to the Might of the relic, although their Soak still protects them as normal. The assault is accompanied by suitably dramatic visual effects, such as holy fire, lightning, or whatever the storyguide feels is appropriate. It ends as soon as they leave the aura. This power does not affect characters or creatures merely affiliated with the Infernal realm, though they will feel discomfort if they handle the relics for extended periods of time.

In addition, some relics have powers specific to them. In the case of relics of saints, these powers usually match those of the saint to whom they once belonged. In the case of other relics, the powers are conferred directly by Divine Will. Two sample powers are given here, more can be found on pages 88 and 89 of *Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition*.

> #### Sample Relic Powers
>
> *The Faithful Made Whole*, 4 points, Init +15, Corpus. This power cures the recipient of all disease and heals all physical wounds.
>
> *Flabbergast the Impertinent*, 2 points, Init +3, Mentem. This curse causes the target to fall into a deep sleep, lasting the night, and accompanied by loud snores. The sleeper will wake in the morning exhausted from his snoring, down two long-term Fatigue levels. No magic can prematurely wake the sleeper.

### Miracles

Miracles are the direct intervention of God in the world. As such, they can do anything, cannot fail, and cannot be resisted by any other power. More discussion of their role in the setting can be found in the Mythic Europe chapter, on page 505.

> ### Magic Resistance For Church Officers and Sovereigns
>
> The Divine protects the ordained and anointed leaders of Mythic Europe from interference by other supernatural powers. The religious and secular leaders listed below receive a Magic Resistance score as listed here, and a Soak bonus equal to Magic Resistance / 5.
>
> Excommunication cancels these benefits (but only if the excommunication is God's will). Those listed here also have a Penetration 0 Aura of Rightful Authority extending to Voice Range. Roughly speaking, a legatus a latere is a cleric authorized to act on behalf of the Pope, with his power. A legatus missus has the same authorization, but for a single purpose.
>
> For more details, see *The Church*, page 31.
>
> - Pope 25
> - Cardinal or Legatus a latere 20
> - Legatus missus 15
> - Archbishop 10
> - King (once crowned) 10
> - Wives gain Magic Resistance equal to their husbands'.
> - Magic Resistance from relics is added to the above, but does not affect Soak.


