## Regiones

Occasionally, within very special supernatural areas, special types of auras arise. These may exist within larger domains or by themselves, and may be of any type of aura.

They are called regiones (singular regio, "realm", pronounced 'REH-ghee-oh' and 'rehghee-OH-nays', with a hard 'g' in both cases).

Regiones consist of several levels of aura, layered one on top of another in order of increasing power, the lowest level is connected to the mundane world. To picture this phenomenon,imagine a building with multiple floors. The ground floor is the level of the regio connected to the mundane world, while the higher floors are the higher levels of the regio. To climb, you must use the stairs, and to do that you must know where they are, or wander around until you bump into them. The higher floors have higher auras, and so have more characteristics of their realm.

Just as the various floors of a building occupy the same spot of ground, so do the various levels of a regio occupy the same bit of space. It is entirely possible to pass through the bottom level of a regio without realizing that there are more levels than meet the eye.

Regiones have inhabitants, just like other areas of supernatural aura. These beings tend to cluster on specific levels, though they can cross level boundaries freely. The higher one travels in the regio, the stranger and more supernaturally aligned its inhabitants become.

### Entering and Leaving Regiones

Any character crossing the boundary of a regio disappears from the normal world and enters a supernatural realm. There are three ways to enter most regiones: being led, entering voluntarily, and getting lost.

Any being native to a regio and part of or affiliated to the realm can lead any number of characters to any level of the regio. Magi are affiliated to the Magic realm, and if they live in a Magical regio they count as native to that regio.

There are two ways to enter a regio voluntarily, and either or both may apply to a particular regio. The first involves seeing into the regio and then crossing the boundary. This requires some supernatural ability. Second Sight allows a character to see into any regio, as does Magic Sensitivity. Sense Holiness and Unholiness allows a character to see into Divine and Infernal regiones.

To see into a regio level, roll:

**REGIO SIGHT ROLL: Perception + Appropriate Ability + Stress Die**

**EASE FACTOR: 5 + (2 × difference between current level's aura and sought level's aura)**

If you are in an aura different from the aura of the regio, add the current aura and the aura of the regio level to determine the Ease Factor. Thus, the Ease Factor to see from a level 3 Divine aura into a level 5 Magic regio is 21, the difference between these two auras is 8. The Ease Factor may be modified by large amounts on particular days or by particular activities.

Anyone who can see the next level of a regio can lead any number of people into it.

The second way of entering involves following a particular path or ritual. Sometimes, following the path is enough by itself, and no rolls are needed. In other cases, the rolls specified for seeing into a regio must still be made, but unless the path is followed there is no chance of success. The path can be as simple as walking seven times clockwise around a hill, or as complex as desired, possibly only being available on a particular day, or to a particular kind of person. Some regiones are all but impossible to enter.

Finally, if a character gets lost near a regio boundary, he may accidentally enter the regio. Roll as normal, except that if the character does not have a relevant Ability this merely counts as zero.

At least one of these methods of entry must apply to any regio, at least if it is to have any impact on the game. There are some regiones into which you must be led by a native, and others into which you cannot be led, or enter voluntarily, but rather must get lost. Natives of a regio can almost always enter and leave freely, but even then there are exceptions. The most secure location possible for a covenant is a regio which people can only enter by being led, but getting into such a regio in the first place is very difficult.

#### Magic In Regiones

Supernatural powers or spells used in a regio level are affected just as in any other aura, determined by the Realm Interaction Table. Use the aura rating of the level occupied to modify spell and other supernatural rolls. However, any power used within a regio of a realm different from that of the power attracts twice the normal number of botch dice.

### The Origins of Regiones

Regiones arise in several ways, but two appear to be the most common. First, an inhabited aura might be surrounded by an aura of a different type, and slowly compressed. Sometimes, the aura simply disappears, but if the inhabitants are strong enough the besieged aura might move up into a regio, leaving a lower level aura in contact with the new aura. One or two Hermetic covenants have entered regiones in this way. When this happens the old contents of the aura are normally found on the new regio level, while the base level contains ruined and decaying versions of any buildings.

The other common route is through a spectacular and powerful event. Sometimes, instead of raising the prevailing aura, these events create a new regio level at a higher aura. This sort of event often duplicates all the mundane structures, and people may start scattered between the two new levels. Again, one or two Hermetic covenants have entered regiones in this way.

Hermetic magi would love to be able to create regiones at will, but they have yet to learn how. Attempts to create regiones through spectacular magical events have not succeeded reliably, and have often had very bad consequences.

