## Creatures of the Divine

Creatures with Divine Might use the normal rules for determining Magic Resistance, Penetration, and whether their powers can be dispelled.

Although they are acting on behalf of God, they are not direct interventions by the deity, and thus are not omnipotent.

Creatures with Divine Might cannot have True Faith. That blessing is limited to beings who are not already part of the Divine Realm.

Creatures with Divine Might are never bothered by The Gift. They judge people based on their actions and hearts, not on the powers that they might have. If you decide that magic is inherently sinful, they are inclined against magi, but because of their sins, not because of The Gift. Specific Flaws (such as Offensive to Divine Beings and Unbearable to Divine Beings) that modify or simulate the effects of The Gift may cause creatures with Divine Might to react negatively to the character with the Flaw, although Magical Air does not. Such Flaws, and encounters, are not common enough for anyone in Mythic Europe to wonder why.

#### Angelic Powers

All angels possess the following powers:

*Angelic Mantle*, 2 points, +12, Corpus: Angels use this power to manifest in the mundane world and appear to take on mortal flesh. In reality, this form is entirely formed from their intellect, but appears and acts exactly like real flesh. While in this "material" form, they must follow the mundane world's natural laws, and so are limited, with Characteristic and Soak scores, and Fatigue and Wound levels. Although angels are genderless, their Mantles normally do have a gender; while in their Mantle, angels may breed, and sire or bear children (although no angel has done so since the flood), although they do not age. If they are "killed" while in their Mantle, they return to their spiritual form, but may if they choose (and have the necessary Might Points) immediately use this power again. An angel's Mantle may appear as anything.

*Enfolding*, 2 or 10 points, +10, Vim: When the pious are in danger or torment, the angel may grant them comfort, imparting a moment of peace and mercy. This power renders the target's soul wholly safe and protected for a short time. While Enfolded the target's soul (and mind) may not be targeted by any supernatural power of any kind. This power only lasts for a few scant moments, but for the target it is timeless and can seem to stretch to a lifetime. An angel may also Enfold a person's body (costing 10 Might points), rendering them completely invulnerable to magic, pain, damage, fatigue, wounds, or death, although this power only lasts for a very short period of time (no longer than one combat round). This power is most often used on a member of the faithful who is about to be martyred or suffer terribly.

*Envisioning*, 1 or 5 points, +0, Mentem: This power allows angels to appear in the dreams of a target, or even while awake, and impart a Divine message. This is different to a miraculous vision, which occurs through direct Divine agency. An Envisioning that takes place while the target is awake costs five points and may seem like a daydream, or a vivid or frightening vision, depending on what message the angel intends. Anyone may be the target of Envisioning, pious and impious, pagan and infernalist. Envisioning may occur over any distance.

### Gabriel, the Archangel of Prophecy

Divine Might: 100 (Mentem)

Characteristics: Int +10, Per +10, Pre +10, Com +10, Str +8, Sta +8, Dex +8, Qik +8

Size: 0 Age: n/a

Confidence Score: 7 (50)

Virtues and Flaws: Good Teacher, Inspirational

Personality Traits: Compassionate +3, Intellectual +3, Just +3, Love of God +5, Patient +3

Reputations: Messenger of God 5, among Jews, Christians and Muslims

Combat:

Fist: Init +8, Attack +19, Defense +19, Damage +8 Soak: +8

Fatigue levels: OK, 0/0/0, -1/-1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16–20)

Abilities: Awareness 10 (the uneducated), Charm 10 (pupils), Brawl 10 (fist), Leadership 10 (calling attention), Teaching 15 (Theology), All knowledge at a score of 15

Powers:

Enlighten, variable, Init +0, Mentem: Gabriel can implant any Knowledge into the mind of another, at a cost of 1 Might for every experience point implanted. He may not give any character knowledge that takes their Ability score over 15.

Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim: Gabriel can become a creature of pure spirit as he wishes. This means that he is unable to affect things physically, or be affected physically.

Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus: Gabriel can change his appearance to look like any human being. His statistics do not change.

Equipment: Robes Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Vis: 20 pawns of Mentem in head.

Appearance: Gabriel usually takes the form of a compassionate, gentle man, sometimes with wings growing from his shoulders or arms.

More approachable and intellectually-minded than his fellows, the Archangel Gabriel (Jibril or Jabra'il in Islam) is the chief messenger of God, best known for his teaching of the prophet Daniel, his announcing of the incarnation of Christ to the Virgin Mary and his bringing of the revelation of the Qur'an to Muhammad, for whom he also acted as a constant counsellor. He may be encountered by characters who are seeking wisdom, particularly if this wisdom is of a religious nature. He is most likely to be encountered in the form described here; in his natural form he is a 600-winged figure who is large enough to stand astride the horizon.

> *"Say (O Muhammad, to mankind): Who is an enemy to Jibril! For he it is who hath revealed (this Scripture) to thy heart by Allah's leave, confirming that which was (revealed) before it, and a guidance and glad tidings to believers."*
>
> — Qur'an 2:97

### Kolazonta, the Chastiser

Divine Might: 30 (Ignem)

Characteristics: Int +3, Per +3, Pre +3, Com +3, Str +2, Sta +5, Dex +1, Qik +1

Confidence Score: 2 (15)

Virtues and Flaws: Greater Immunity (Fire) Personality Traits: Love of God +5, Grim +4, Remorseless +3

Reputations: Scourge of the Impious 3, amongst Jews.

Flaming Fist\*: Init +1, Attack +6, Defense +6, Damage +7 This fire is natural and ignores Magic Resistance, although not Soak from Arts.

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20)

Abilities: Brawl 4 (fists), Dominion Lore 6 (angels), Theology 6 (sin)

Powers:

Chastise the Sinful, 5 points, +1, Corpus: As Curse of the Unportended Plaque.

Cloud form, 0 points, +30, Auram: Can take on the form of a cloud at will, making him immune to all physical attacks (although he may be targeted by Auram spells).

Fiery Form, 0 points, +30, Ignem: May become a fiery man at will, doing +5 damage to anyone that approaches within 5 feet.

Equipment: None. Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Vis: 4 pawns Corpus throughout body, 2 pawns Ignem in veins.

Appearance: Kolazonta most often appears as a dark, ominous cloud, but may rarely manifest as a man made of white fire, with veins of flame and eyes of Kolazonta is one of the angels tasked by the lord to chastise His faithful for their failings, and as such he is a servant of Uriel, the Angel of Punishment. Kolazonta was the angel who brought the plague upon the Israelites (in Numbers 16:46–50) for rebelling against Moses. Aaron defeated Kolazonta after Moses told him the punishment was lifted. Kolazonta is a grim angel who executes the chastisement of the Lord without fear or favor. He is often present amidst armies or cities under siege, waiting for the Lord's command to inflict a plague upon the sinful.

> *...our father Aaron, armed with the censer, ran through the multitude of the people and conquered the fiery angel...*
>
> — 4 Maccabees 7:11

### Lupersus

Divine Might: 20 (Animal)

Characteristics: Int 0, Per +3, Pre +3, Com -2, Str +2, Sta +3, Dex +1, Qik +2

Size: -1 Age: n/a

Confidence Score: 1 (6)

Virtues and Flaws: None

Personality Traits: Loyal +3, Patient +2, Helpful +2

Reputations: None

Combat:

Bite: Init +8, Attack +11, Defense +16, Damage +8

Soak: +7

Fatigue levels: OK, 0/0/0/0/0/0, –1, –3, –5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-4), -3 (5-8), -5 (9-12), Incapacitated (13–16)

Abilities: Area Lore 5 (food sources), Awareness 5 (threats to his charge), Brawl 4 (bite), Divine Lore 5 (saints), Hunt 8 (rabbits), Stealth 8 (hiding from humans), Survival 8 (hills)

Powers:

Perfect Defender, 1 point, Init +20, Animal: If Lupersus is acting as a defender to another character in combat, he can use this power to get a +10 bonus to Defense for the duration of the combat. For these purposes, the combat lasts until Lupersus is disengaged.

Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Vis: 4 pawns of Animal, in the whole body.

Appearance: A silver-gray wolf, with a noble bearing. No matter what terrain he runs through, Lupersus never gets dirty.

Lupersus has been sent by God to guard a holy hermit, provide him with food, and, occasionally, lead those in need of advice to the hermit who can provide it. He cannot speak, and has no wish to do so. While his main focus is on the hermit, Lupersus is generally compassionate, and helps those in trouble whom he finds within his range. Sometimes he leads them to safety, but most people do not trust a wolf. In those cases, he chases them to safety. Lupersus is not an angel, but rather a divine creature, and does not have the powers shared by all angels.

### Nasir, the Delper

Divine Might: 25 (Corpus)

Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre +2, Com +2, Str 0, Sta +1, Dex +2, Qik +2

Size: 0 Age: n/a (33)

Confidence Score: 2 (10)

Virtues and Flaws: Ways of the (Local Environment); Animal Ken, Wilderness Sense

Personality Traits: Compassionate +3, Just +3,

Love of God +5

Reputations: None

Combat:

Fist: Init +2, Attack +8, Defense +8, Damage +0

Soak: +1

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16–20)

Abilities: Animal Handling 8 (horses), Animal Ken 8 (horses), Athletics 8 (climbing), Awareness 8 (natural hazards), Brawl 5 (fist), Chirurgy 8 (bind wound), Dominion Lore 8 (angels), Swim 8 (rough water), Theology 8 (angelology), Wilderness Sense 8 (local environment)

Powers:

Calming Touch, 3 points, Init +0, Animal/Mentem: By touching the target, Nasir can calm their fears, making them feel reassured in the face of dangerous terrain.

Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim: Nasir can become a creature of pure spirit as he wishes. This means that he is unable to affect things physically, or be affected physically.

Steadying Hand, 5 points, Init +30, Animal/Corpus: By touching the target, Nasir can assure that their footsteps are firm and that they can cross the most impassable of terrain. The target will not slip or fall as long as contact is maintained.

Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus: Nasir can change his appearance to look like any human being. His statistics do not change.

Equipment: Travelling clothes

Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Vis: 4 pawns of Terram in feet.

Appearance: An unassuming man dressed in wellworn travelling clothes.

Nasir is a minor angel charged with the safety of pious travellers. He spends most of his time helping those in need, seeming to appear by mundane means from just out of sight, providing what aid he can, and then leaving again before he can be questioned too closely about his origins.

> *"As I was unable to walk, I climbed the mountain on horseback, while its slopes were all covered with pieces of stone and pebbles which slipped backwards under the feet of the horse every time its hoofs struck them [...] It slipped backward, with the pebbles and chips of stone sliding under it, and fell. So I dismounted, assisted the horse to its feet and stopped, unable to move. At that moment a man came down to me from the mountain and held me by the hand, my other hand holding the pack horse, until he got me to the summit. No, by Allah, I did not know who the man was and never saw him again. [...] He was none other than an angel whom Allah, moved by compassion toward me, sent to my aid."*
>
> —Usama ibn Munqidh (d. 1188), The Book of Learning by Example

### Seferiel

Divine Might: 50 (Corpus)

Characteristics: Int +5, Per +5, Pre +5, Com +5, Str +5, Sta +5, Dex +5, Qik +5

Size: +1 Age: n/a (30)

Confidence Score: 3 (18) Virtues and Flaws: None

Personality Traits: Just +3, Love of God +5, Curious +2, Merciful +2, Curious +2, Merciful +2

Reputations: None

Combat:

Flaming Greatsword: Init +18, Attack +21, Defense +18, Damage +25 (Note that both the greatsword and the fire are natural, because God made them that way, and thus not magically resisted.)

Soak: +20

Fatigue levels: OK, 0/0/0/0/0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-6), -3 (7-12), -5 (13-18), Incapacitated (19-24)

Abilities: Awareness 5 (casting magic), Charm 3 (magi), Divine Lore 10 (angels), Great Weapon 7 (greatsword), Leadership 7 (magi), Magic Theory 10 (theological implications), Order of Hermes Lore 10 (interactions with the Church), Theology 10 (angelology)

Powers:

Magic, 1 or more points, lnit +18, by effect: Seferiel can duplicate any effect of Hermetic magic, at a cost of 1 Might Point for every two magnitudes of the Hermetic effect. There is no limit, other than his remaining Might Pool, on the number of points he can spend on a single effect. This includes ritual effects, for which he needs neither vis nor long periods of time.

Spirit Form, 0 points, Init +30, Vim: Seferiel can become a creature of pure spirit as he wishes. This means that he is unable to affect things physically, or be affected physically.

Subtle Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus: Seferiel can change his appearance to look like any human being. His statistics do not change.

Equipment: Shining white robes, flaming greatsword Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Vis: 10 pawns of Ignem in the sword.

Appearance: A large man, with golden-tinged skin and burning-bright hair, dressed in a white robe that shines like the stars. He carries a burning greatsword.

Seferiel is an angel with special responsibility for Hermetic magi. Most of the time, he seeks to draw them closer to God, but sometimes he acts as the instrument of God's vengeance against those who are particularly wicked. His attitude depends slightly on whether magic is inherently sinful in your saga, his suggested courses of action depend on this more strongly. However, either way he likes Hermetic magi, in general, and finds them fascinating people. He often pretends to be a magus in order to get to know people better, and find out what they are really like.

Seferiel sometimes takes an interest in a particular magus, one whom he sees has great potential, and is a suitable antagonist for the Plagued by Angel Story Flaw. His divinely-appointed mission is, however, to the Order as a whole, and he travels across Europe to bring God's message to as many magi as possible.

---

