## Creature Powers

Creature powers are not Hermetic spells, and thus are not bound by the restrictions of Hermetic magic. For a start, they do not have levels.

Instead, every power has a Might cost, which is deducted from the creature's Might Pool when the power is used. Further, creature powers need not use the standard Hermetic ranges, durations, and targets. Nevertheless, Hermetic spells are a good source of inspiration for creature powers, and 'like this spell, apart from...' is a very good way to describe a new power.

The format for a creature power is as follows:

**Power Name, X points, Init Y, Form: Description.**

The name is simply descriptive. X is the number of points the creature must spend from its Might Pool to use the power. Init is the Initiative modifier for the power; this determines when it is used in combat. The Form is the Hermetic Form that provides Magic Resistance against the power.

The description is everything else; what the power does, and the game mechanics, if necessary, for its effects.

The Penetration of a creature's powers depends on the creature's Might Score and on the number of points spent to use the power.

**CREATURE POWER PENETRATION: Might Score – (5 x Might Point cost of the power) + Penetration Bonus**

The Penetration Bonus is calculated in exactly the same way as for Hermetic magi (see page 219), so if the creature does not have the Penetration Ability, it is zero.

Some creature powers can be dispelled, if they have continuing effects. Their effective level is equal to the Might Score of the creature.

**CREATURE POWER LEVEL FOR DISPELLING: Creature's Might Score**

