## Creature Format

The format for a creature is very similar to the format for a character, and uses a lot of the same rules and values. In most cases, if a line does not apply, it is omitted. Sometimes it is left in, with an explanation of why it does not apply, if that would be clearer.

**(Realm) Might:** The creature's Might Score. For mundane creatures, this line is omitted. The Form with which the creature is associated, for warding purposes, appears in brackets after the Might Score.

**Characteristics:** A list of the characteristics and values. Creatures with animal intelligence have a Cunning (Cun) score rather than an Intelligence score.

**Size:** The creature's size. Size 0 is the same size (volume, and thus normally roughly mass) as an adult human being. An increase or decrease of three points of Size is approximately equivalent to a factor of ten change in size.

**Age:** The creature's actual age, with the apparent age in brackets. (See Long Term Events, page 391, for aging rules and apparent age.) This is often irrelevant for creatures.

**Decrepitude:** The creature's number of Decrepitude points. These are gained from aging, and described on page 392. This is often irrelevant for creatures.

**Warping Score:** The creature's Warping Score, with the number of excess Warping Points in brackets. See Warping, on page 389, for more details. Creatures with Might do not have Warping Scores, as they are already part of a realm, but mundane creatures can have one.

**Confidence Score:** The creature's Confidence Score, with the number of Confidence Points in brackets. Important creatures, just like important characters, have Confidence.

**Virtues and Flaws:** All the creature's Virtues and Flaws, if it has any. These are all described in Virtues and Flaws, starting on page 61. If the creature has a Social Status, this comes first. Otherwise, the list starts with the Major Virtues, in alphabetical order, followed by Minor Virtues, alphabetically, Major Flaws, alphabetically, and Minor Flaws, also arranged in alphabetical order. A very few creatures do have The Gift, in which case it appears first, as normal. Only creatures with Magic Might can have The Gift, as it is an ability tied specifically to the Magic Realm.

**Personality Traits:** The creature's personality traits, and scores.

**Reputations:** Details of the creature's reputations, if any.

**Combat:** The combat statistics for modes of attack and weapons that the creature uses often.

**Soak:** The creature's Soak score.

**Fatigue Levels:** A listing of the creature's Fatigue levels and penalties, which represent how tired the creature is. A notation of 0/0 indicates that the creature has two Fatigue levels that impose no penalty, -1/-1/-1 indicates three Fatigue levels that impose a -1penalty. The penalty from Fatigue is always the penalty imposed by the least-tired remaining level, so a creature with three -1 Fatigue levels has a Fatigue penalty of -1 from when it loses its last 0 Fatigue level until it loses the third –1 Fatigue level. Fatigue is described on page 403. Not all creatures can tire.

**Wound Penalties:** Shows the penalties for wounds of varying severity, with the number of points of damage required to inflict a wound of that severity shown in brackets. Not all creatures can be wounded.

**Abilities:** All of the creature's Abilities, in alphabetical order. The format is Ability X (Y) (specialization), where X is the score in the Ability and (Y) is the number of experience points spent towards the next level.

**Equipment:** The creature's stuff.

**Encumbrance:** The creature's Encumbrance, with the creature's Burden in brackets. The rules for Encumbrance are on page 403.

**Powers:** The creature's powers, in the format Power Name, X points, Init Y, Form: Description. (See previous page.)

**Vis:** The type, amount, and location of any vis in the creature. This is normally found in the corpse, rather than the living being.

### Size Examples

Each Size category is approximately twice as heavy as the previous size category. A 1-point difference in Size doubles the weight, 2 points multiplies it by five, and a 3-point increase in Size entails a ten-fold increase in mass. Thus a pig weighs approximately the same as 50 hedgehogs, 200 rats or 2000 mice. Birds are two Size points bigger than their weight would suggest, accounting for their larger overall dimension; if you need to know the weight of a bird, subtract two from the Size before calculation. All heights and weights are approximate.

| Size | Height     | Weight          | Examples                                                                         |
| ---- | ---------- | --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| –15  | 1" or less | Less than 1 oz. | Insect                                                                           |
| –10  | 4–5"       | 1 oz.           | Minnow, mouse                                                                    |
| –9   | 6–7"       | 1.5 oz.         | Bat, frog                                                                        |
| –8   | 8–9"       | 0.25–0.5 lbs    | Mole, salamander, toad                                                           |
| –7   | 10–11"     | 0.5–1 lb        | Rat, weasel                                                                      |
| –6   | 12–13"     | 1–2 lbs         | Lizard, stoat, thrush                                                            |
| –5   | 14–15"     | 2–5 lbs         | Cuckoo, dove, eel, polecat, grass snake, hedgehog, partridge, rabbit             |
| –4   | 16–20"     | 5–10 lbs        | Adder, cockerel, crow, magpie, octopus, owl, raven                               |
| –3   | 21–32"     | 10–22 lbs       | Badger, carp, cat, duck, falcon, gull, hare, human baby, osprey, otter, pike     |
| –2   | 2'9"–3'9"  | 22–46 lbs       | Beaver, dog, eagle, fox, goose, grouse, heron, human child, roe deer, salmon     |
| –1   | 3'9"–4'9"  | 47–100 lbs      | Adolescent human, ape, crane, gazelle, lynx, sheep, stork, swan, wild goat, wolf |
| 0    | 4'9"–6'2"  | 100–215 lbs     | Adult human, antelope, boar, deer, dolphin, pig                                  |
| +1   | 6'2"–8'    | 215–465 lbs     | Buck (male fallow deer), ibex, pony, seal                                        |
| +2   | 8'–10'     | 465–1000 lbs    | Bear, horse, lion, stag (male red deer)                                          |
| +3   | 10'–13'    | 1000–2150 lbs   | Aurochs, moose, shark, walrus, war horse                                         |
| +4   | 13'–17'    | 2150–4600 lbs   | Elephant                                                                         |
| +5   | 17'–22'    | 2½–5 tons       | Killer whale                                                                     |
| +6   | 22'–28'    | 5–10½ tons      | —                                                                                |
| +7   | 28'–37'    | 10½–23 tons     | Small dragon                                                                     |
| +8   | 37'–47'    | 23–50 tons      | —                                                                                |
| +9   | 47'–61'    | 50–107 tons     | Humpbacked whale                                                                 |
| +10  | 61'–79'    | 107–230 tons    | —                                                                                |

