## Creating Creatures

When creating creatures for use in your own saga, you have a great deal of freedom. The first thing to remember is that, if during play you realize that you have assigned the wrong numbers to some of the creature's statistics, you are allowed to change them during the game. Thus, you do not need to worry about getting the numbers exactly right, it's much more important to have the concept right, and have powers, Abilities, and Characteristics that do the right sort of thing.

The first step is coming up with a concept. The magical spirit that is the Rhine is very different from a faerie who mends shoes left out overnight, and different again from a demon who tempts people to blasphemy. An important part of the concept is the intended role with respect to the player characters. If the player characters are supposed to be able to defeat the creature in combat, you need to make sure its statistics are low enough. On the other hand, if the player characters are supposed to have no chance in a fight, you should make the statistics high.

Powers should be defined on the basis of what you think is interesting. If a power proves to be a problem, you can easily change it during play, so, again, you shouldn't worry too much. Creature powers can break the limits of magic, no matter what realm they are connected to, and you don't even have to explain to the other players how a particular power works. As long as you keep things interesting and fun, the players aren't likely to be worried about details anyway.

There are a few things worth bearing in mind when picking the numbers.

**Might:** Might Score is very important. A Might Score of 20 indicates that starting magi will have a lot of trouble affecting the creature with magic. A Might Score of 40 is enough to cause problems for a middle-aged magus, and a Might Score of 60 makes life difficult for even powerful magi. A Might Score of 75 renders the creature almost immune to Hermetic magic; casting totals over 75 are very rare indeed, even before subtracting the spell level.

A Might Score high enough to stop the player magi using spells that kill or inflict serious wounds is a good way to make sure that a climactic battle lasts more than a round, especially if combined with a good Soak score, or other strong combat abilities. A relatively high Might Score is also a good way to motivate the magi to gather Arcane Connections,

horoscopes, and images, so that they can boost their Penetration as high as possible.

**Combat Statistics:** If you do not intend the creature to get into a fight, you don't need to work these out in advance. If it is intended to fight, these need to be set by comparison with the player character combat statistics. In general, the creature should be a bit weaker than the force likely to attack it, if the grogs fight as a trained group, this means that the creature should be a lot more powerful than an individual grog.

**Powers:** The Might cost of a power is not determined primarily by how powerful the power is. Instead, it determines how good the power's Penetration is, and how often it can be used. As a rule, you will want greater powers to have lower Penetration and be usable less often, but that need not always be the case. A dragon that can breathe devastating fire as often as it likes (Might cost 0), but can only heal once or twice per day (Might cost 25), is a perfectly reasonable creature.

