## Creating Mundane Beasts

Shapeshifters of varying sorts create the need for a wide variety of statistics for mundane beasts. Although the animals listed in the previous section cover a wide range of the most popular options, there is no way to cover all the creatures that a magus might want to change into. This section provides detailed guidelines for creating any mundane beast, from the hedgehog heartbeast of Hérisson of House Bjornaer to a camel from the deserts of Arabia.

### 1. Type and Size

There are four categories of beasts: Birds, Fish, Hoofed Beasts and Clawed Beasts. Birds are self-explanatory. Fish includes amphibians such as frogs, toads, and salamanders and reptiles such as snakes and lizards, as well as more traditional fish and whales. Hoofed Beasts includes both domestic animals and wild ones. The category of Clawed Beasts contains all creatures which do not fit into the other types.

### 2. Characteristics

As noted earlier, mundane beasts have a Characteristic called Cunning in place of an Intelligence score. Use Cunning for rolls that would otherwise call for Intelligence, such as finding a way out of a closed barn. Beasts have a limited capacity for problem-solving but they lack imagination, reason, and intelligence as such. Communication and Presence have slightly different meanings for animals. Presence represents how much impact that the creature has on its human viewers. Creatures with a low Presence are barely noticed, those with a high Presence instill awe, fear or wonder. Communication, as for humans, represents the ability of the animal to impart information; few animals (to the medieval mind) are capable of the transmission of complex thoughts to others. For beasts, the Quickness Characteristic has mainly to do with reflexes and agility, and little to do with movement rate. Many animals can run faster than a human, but that does not necessarily mean they should have better Initiative and Defense scores. Animals that run fast, but do not have especially good reflexes, have a Quality (see below) which reflects this.

Unlike human characters, animals only spend points on their four physical characteristics (Stamina, Strength, Dexterity and Quickness). Like human characters, there are up to seven points to spend on increasing these characteristics. Negative points may also be taken to gain an equal number of positive points, but an animal cannot have more than two characteristics with negative values, and the minimum value is equal to (Size -5). There is no maximum characteristic score for an animal, and no Virtue or Flaw is needed for extreme characteristic scores for animals.

After spending points on characteristics, make the following adjustments:

- Add twice the Size to Strength
- Subtract Size from Quickness

These adjustments may give an animal a third negative characteristic, or reduce a characteristic below the minimum of (Size -5).

The other four characteristics (Cunning, Perception, Presence and Communication) are given values according to the type of creature.

A creature may have the Minor Virtue Increased Characteristics one or more times (this is particularly appropriate for predators), just like a human character. The characteristic points gained from this Virtue may be applied to any of the physical Characteristics. These points should be spent before applying the adjustments for Size. See Step 3, below, for adjustments to this Virtue.

#### Mental Characteristics of Creatures

| Type            | Cun | Per | Pre | Com |
| --------------- | --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Clawed Beast    | 0   | 0   | -2  | -5  |
| Hoofed Beast    | -2  | 0   | -4  | -5  |
| Bird            | -1  | +2  | -1  | -2  |
| Fish            | -3  | -2  | -5  | -6  |

#### Example Physical Characteristics of Creatures

| Type of creature | Size | Str | Sta | Dex | Qik | Example |
| ---------------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- | --- | ------- |
| Small predator   | -5   | -7  | +0  | +1  | +5  | Polecat |
| Large predator   | -1   | +0  | +3  | -1  | +1  | Lynx    |
| Rodent           | -7   | -12 | +1  | +3  | +5  | Rat     |
| Small herbivore  | -3   | -7  | +3  | +2  | +2  | Hare    |
| Large herbivore  | +0   | +2  | +2  | +0  | +1  | Boar    |
| Songbird         | -6   | -12 | +0  | +3  | +7  | Thrush  |
| Predatory bird   | -3   | -6  | +0  | +1  | +6  | Falcon  |
| Reptile          | -4   | -8  | +2  | +2  | +3  | Adder   |
| Large fish       | -2   | -4  | +4  | +0  | +0  | Salmon  |

#### Creatures of Non-Standard Size

You may wish to create creatures which are larger or smaller than the average for their type, or they may have been affected by Muto Animal spells. This is a simple procedure: for every point of Size removed, subtract two from Strength (and therefore Damage total), add one to Quickness (and therefore Initiative and Defense totals), and decrease the damage range for each wound level by 1 (minimum of 1). Note that the creature's mass has halved, at least. Increasing Size has exactly the opposite effect.

### 3. Virtues and Flaws

Each species of beast has certain Virtues and Flaws that are common to all members of that species. Species Virtues and Flaws are not given for game balance reasons, but rather to provide rules for the unique strengths and qualities of beasts. When designing your own species, simply assign the Virtues and Flaws that describe the species the way you imagine it. It is recommended that a species have at least one point of Flaws for every three points of Virtues. All beasts get their species' Virtues and Flaws for free.

Exceptional beasts may also take individual Virtues or Flaws that set them apart from others of their kind. Any individual Virtues a beast takes must be balanced with individual Flaws, just as for human characters.

Personality Flaws are particularly appropriate for beasts; you may need to come up with new Flaws of this type, and creatures can have more than one.

#### Suitable Virtues and Flaws

**Virtues:** Berserk, Enduring Constitution, Ferocity, Improved Characteristics\*, Lightning Reflexes, Long-Winded, Perfect Balance, Rapid Convalescence, Piercing Gaze, Reserves of Strength, Self-Confident, Tough 

**Flaws:** Clumsy, Fragile Constitution, Poor Eyesight, Poor Hearing, Fear, Noncombatant, Nocturnal, Reckless, Reclusive, Weakness; most Major Personality Flaws taken as Minor Flaws.

*\* Improved Characteristics: large creatures require more characteristic points, because high value characteristics are increasingly more expensive. A creature of Size +1 or smaller gets 3 characteristic points from this Virtue as normal, a creature of Size +2 gets 6 characteristic points, a creature of size +3 gets 9 characteristic points, and so on.*

### 4. Basic Abilities

All creatures have the following Abilities:

| Type     | Abilities |
| -------- | --------- |
| Clawed Beast | Awareness 3 (food), Athletics 3 (running), Brawl 3 (bite or claw), Survival 3 (home terrain)          |
| Hoofed Beast | Awareness 3 (predators), Athletics 4 (running), Brawl 2 (dodging), Survival 3 (home terrain) |
| Bird         | Awareness 4 (food), Athletics 3 (flying), Brawl 2 (dodging), Survival 3 (home terrain)             |
| Fish         | Awareness 2 (food), Brawl 2 (dodging), Survival 3 (home terrain), Swim 5 (in home terrain)            |

Qualities (see below) may add further Abilities to this list. Animals (at least, those with Cunning rather than Intelligence) cannot acquire experience points to improve their Abilities once they have reached adulthood, nor can they learn new Abilities. However, an intelligent being can provide a tamed beast with Teaching experience points using Animal Handling instead of Teaching, these points can be applied to current Abilities or conceivable new Abilities.

Unless modified by Qualities, all creatures have one Natural Weapon (usually either Teeth, Claws, or Hooves), and fur, feathers or scales which give them a Protection of 0.

A young animal may not have all of the Qualities that it will as an adult, and has reduced scores in most Abilities.

### 5. Qualities

Qualities are features of the animal that affect its game characteristics. Add any appropriate Qualities to the base creature from the following list, or make up your own. If any Quality grants an Ability that the creature already has, use the highest score, and choose whichever specialty seems most appropriate. Through Qualities, a creature may have one or more extra Fatigue levels. One extra Fatigue level grants an additional Winded level, two extra grant another Winded Level and another Weary Level, etc.

**Accomplished Flyer:** this bird is either a particularly powerful flier, or an acrobatic one. Athletics 5 (flying); the creature must be capable of flight.

**Aggressive:** add 1 to Cunning, Brawl 5 (natural weapons)

**Ambush Predator:** the beast lies in wait for its prey, and catches it by surprise. Stealth 4 (stalking prey), Hunt 4 (prey). Specialization for Brawl changes to one of the beast's natural weapons. If it has successfully crept up on its prey, it automatically wins Initiative in the first round of combat, and gains a +3 to its Attack total for the first round only.

**Amphibious:** Swim 4 (home terrain). Can hold breath for twice as long as normal.

**Aquatic:** Swim 5 (home terrain). Can breathe water.

**Camouflage:** +3 to all rolls to hide, whenever the creature is not moving.

**Constriction:** the creature has a long sinuous body or muscular tail, and can constrict an opponent whose Size is less than its own. Constriction is based on the grappling rules (page 398). The Attack Total is computed using the Brawl skill, and a constriction attack has the following weapon statistics: Init 0, Atk +3, Dfn 0, Dam n/a. As long as the creature maintains the grapple, its opponent is considered deprived of air (see page 407). The victim must make a Stamina check every 30 seconds (that is, every five rounds), or suffer the normal effects of deprivation. Once the creature has successfully grappled an opponent (and begun constricting), on subsequent rounds it can continue constricting and still attack with other weapons. These attacks may be directed at the grappled victim, or at another opponent.

**Crafty:** raise Cunning to 0 (if currently negative), or add 1. This Quality may be taken more than once for exceptionally cunning animals.

**Crushing Jaws:** although the creature is not particularly strong compared to humans, the muscles with which it bites down are tremendously powerful. The muscles which open its mouth are comparatively weak. A human may hold closed the creature's jaws with a successful Grapple. This Quality adds +3 Damage to any bite attack.

**Defensive Fighter:** the creature will fight, but only to defend itself. Brawl (dodging) 4, and an extra Fatigue Level

**Domesticated:** the beast loses any Survival Ability that it might have, but gains 1 point of Communication, if currently negative.

**Extra Natural Weapons:** gain an extra set of Natural Weapons, such as Horns/Antlers, Teeth/Tusks, Claws, or Hooves. Only one set of weapons may be used in each round of combat. This quality may be taken more than once.

**Eyes of the Bat:** the creature sees in much the same way as magi using the spell Eyes of the Bat.

**Fast Runner:** +3 to all rolls involving running.

**Fast Flyer:** +3 to all rolls involving speed while flying, the creature must be capable of flight.

**Fins:** no penalties to actions taken underwater.

**Good Jumper:** +3 to all rolls involving jumping.

**Grapple:** the creature may make a grapple attack instead of a normal attack. This attack may only be employed against an opponent which is less than or equal to (creature's Size + 1). See Non Lethal Combat (page 397) for rules on grappling. If the creature has another natural weapon (such as a bite), it may add its current Grapple Strength to its Attack Total in subsequent rounds, until the opponent breaks free. The creature must defend against any opponent outside the grapple with its Grapple Defense (see Natural Weapons Table, below).

**Hardy:** the creature is used to harsh conditions; it has Survival 5 (home terrain) and an extra Fatigue Level.

**Herd Animal:** the creature is brave when with others of its own kind. When forced to fight as a group, herd animals temporarily gain the Ferocity Virtue, which they may use to stampede or escape what is threatening them as a group. These animals do not have the Ferocity Virtue when caught on their own, unless taken as a Virtue. For example, a stag might have the Virtue, whereas the deer in his herd have this Quality.

**Imposing Appearance:** the creature has a beautiful, majestic or awe-inspiring appearance which appeals even to humans. Raise Presence to 0 (if negative), or increase by 1 otherwise. This Quality may be taken more than once for exceptionally beautiful or impressive creatures.

**Keen Eyesight:** add 1 to Perception, +3 to all rolls involving eyesight

**Keen Sense of Smell:** add 1 to Perception, +3 to all rolls using the sense of smell, +2 to all Hunt rolls.

**Large Claws:** the creature's claws are larger than average for a creature of its size. Use the weapon statistics for Large Claws listed below.

**Large Horns/Antlers:** the creature's horns or antlers are larger than average for a creature of its size. Use the weapon statistics for Large Horns listed below.

**Large Teeth:** the creature's teeth are larger than average for a creature of its size. Use the weapon statistics for Large Teeth listed below.

**Loathsome Appearance:** the creature is so repulsive that its Presence drops to –6. However, this should be treated as a Presence of +3 if the animal makes any attempt to scare or intimidate an opponent.

**Mimicry:** the creature is capable of mimicking other noises, such as a human voice. Raise Communication to 0 (if negative) or increase by 1. It does not understand the meaning of the sounds it makes, unless the creature has Intelligence rather than Cunning, in which case the creature acquires Living Language 3. Note that a magus shapechanged into a creature with this quality cannot form the precise and complex sounds required for spell casting.

**Overrun:** this effect only applies if the creature has charged into combat, exerting itself for this attack. If the attack is successful, the opponent must make a Dexterity + Athletics stress roll against an Ease Factor equal to (Damage Total (before soak) + creature's Size – opponent's Size). If the roll fails, the opponent lands on the ground a number of feet away equal to the creature's Size, taking falling damage in the process. He must spend his next action regaining his feet, although the creature normally follows up with a trample. Prone characters cannot parry, but must use Brawl to defend themselves.

**Pack Animal:** these creatures may fight as a Trained Group when a Pack Leader is present. If the Pack Leader is not present, they may still fight as an Untrained Group.

**Pack / Herd Leader:** add 1 to Communication, Leadership 5 (own species).

**Pursuit Predator:** the beast actively hunts for its prey, either tracking it by scent or by chasing it down. Hunt 4 (prey), and an extra Fatigue Level. Specialization for Brawl changes to one of the beast's natural weapons.

**Roll Attack:** when the creature has successfully bitten a foe, it may roll in the following round. When the creature rolls, it either twists away a chunk of the flesh of its victim (doing +6 damage) or, if possible, drags its victim beneath the surface of the water. To prevent injury or submersion from a roll, the victim must treat this as a successful grappling attack with an Attack Advantage of 10. If a character is being drowned by the creature, the character may attempt to break free of the creature's jaws each round. This requires the character to overcome a successful Grapple attack with an Attack Advantage of 10.

**Sharp Ears:** add 1 to Perception, +3 to rolls involving hearing

**Shell:** the creature is encased in a protective shell. Grants a +4 to Protection, but the creature suffers a -3 to all rolls involving fast or nimble movement.

**Skilled Climber:** +3 to all rolls involving climbing.

**Slippery:** this creature has a +6 to Defense rolls against Grapple attacks. This Quality may be taken more than once; and the bonus rises by +3 each additional time it is taken.

**Smell Water:** the creature can smell drinkable water for a distance of up to two miles.

**Spiny:** the creature is covered in spines; these grant a+1 bonus to Protection. If any opponent strikes at the Spiny creature with a bite, claw or fist attack, he inflicts damage as normal, but suffers +5 damage in return. Some creatures may poison their spines (see Venomous, below); in which case the attacker's own Attack Advantage is used against itself to determine the success of the Venom attack only.

**Survive Without Water:** the creature can survive without water for up to two weeks.

**Swallow Whole:** the creature can swallow whole any creature of Size 4 or more smaller than the creature itself. The victim can struggle to escape, but the confining nature of the gullet permits only Brawl attacks. It is impossible to breathe inside the creature, requiring deprivation rolls (page 407) even if the victim escapes the grapple. Three rounds after being swallowed, the victim reaches the stomach. The powerful acids inflict +9 damage every round, complete immersion quadruples this to +36 (page 407). A character may be able to brace himself and avoid complete immersion: make a Strength + Athletics roll each round: Ease Factor 6 results in only half immersion (triple damage), Ease Factor 9 results in immersion of a limb (double damage), and Ease Factor 12 means just a splash (normal damage). The creature cannot swallow a second creature until the previous one has reached the stomach.

**Timid:** subtract 1 from Presence, Stealth 4 (hiding), Awareness 4 (predators), usually lacks Natural Weapons.

**Tireless:** the creature gains two extra fatigue levels.

**Thick Fur / Thick Scales:** +1 to Protection; this Quality stacks with the Tough Virtue and the Tough Hide Quality.

**Tough Hide:** +2 to Protection; this Quality stacks with the Tough Virtue and the Thick Fur Quality.

**Venomous:** one of the creature's attacks (usually the bite) also delivers venom into the wound. Compare the Attack Advantage to the victim's Protection (not Soak). If the creature's advantage is higher, then the victim suffers the effect of the venom, regardless of whether the bite inflicts an actual wound. The venom can be of one of two strengths (chosen when Quality is taken) — the creature can choose from either: a venom that inflicts a Light Wound if a Stamina roll with an Ease Factor of 12 is failed; or one that inflicts a Medium Wound but has an Ease Factor of 9 to avoid the effects. This Quality may be taken more than once: each additional time increases the severity of the wound inflicted or adds three to the Ease Factor to avoid the effects.

**Vocal:** the creature can produce impressive vocalizations, such as a powerful roar or howl, beautiful birdsong or the like. Communication is raised to 0 (if negative) or increased by 1, gain Music 3. This Quality may be taken twice for particularly impressive vocal ability, increasing Music to 5.

### 6. Combat Statistics

Combat Statistics are calculated as normal (page 393), using the Natural Weapons Table. Because combat totals are affected by Characteristics, these weapons may be used for creatures of all sizes; a mouse and a cat have the same basic statistics for their bite attack, but the combat totals are very different.

### 7. Putting It All Together

Your creature is now finished!

### Natural Weapons Table

| Attack                  | Init | Atk | Dfn | Dam |
| ----------------------- | ---- | --- | --- | --- |
| Grapple                 | 0    | 0   | 0   | n/a |
| Dodge                   | 0    | n/a | 0   | n/a |
| Teeth                   | 0    | +3  | +1  | +1  |
| Large Teeth             | +0   | +4  | +1  | +3  |
| Tusks                   | +0   | +4  | +2  | +5  |
| Claw                    | -1   | +2  | +3  | +2  |
| Large Claws             | 0    | +5  | +3  | +4  |
| Horns                   | + 1  | +3  | -1  | +2  |
| Large Horns/Antlers     | +2   | +3  | +2  | +3  |
| Hooves                  | +2   | +2  | +2  | +1  |

All natural weapons use the Brawl Ability. Strength, Load and Cost are not applicable.

### Aging

If an animal is to be an important part of a saga (as an Animal Companion, for example), its response to aging should be considered. There are three things to be considered: the age at which aging begins, the adjustment to the aging roll due to age, and the number of aging rolls per year. A human, with an average lifespan of 50 years (ignoring lifestyle modifiers), begins aging at 35, adds one to the aging roll for every 10 years, and makes 1 aging roll each year. The storyguide should decide upon the average lifespan of the creature and adjust these figures accordingly. Thus a creature with an average lifespan of 10 years has a modifier of (50/10) or five. It therefore begins aging at (35/5) or 7 years old, adds one to the aging roll for every (10/5), or two, years of age, and makes (1 x 5), or five, aging rolls each year. If more than one aging roll is made each year, they should be spread evenly throughout the four seasons, with any excess occurring in Winter.

When deciding upon the average lifespan of a creature, strict biological adherence is not necessary in Mythic Europe. Most small animals will have an average lifespan of under ten.

### Statistics of Shapechangers

The rules for creating mundane animals describe the process for producing the statistics for an average member of a particular species, but most player characters are not average humans, and so tend to have characteristics in animal form that differ from the species average. For Bjornaer magi and other shapeshifters, determine the statistics for the creature as described earlier, then follow these steps:

#### 1. Characteristics

For all Characteristics other than Intelligence/ Cunning:

- If the human and the animal Characteristic are both negative, use the lower of the two.
- If the human and the animal Characteristic are both positive, use the higher of the two.

Otherwise, add the two Characteristics together.

#### 2. Cunning Vs. Intelligence

In most cases, the shapechanger retains human Intelligence. However, lycanthropes lose Intelligence, replaced by Cunning, and other transformations, particularly curses, may have the same effect.

Example of Characteristics, Cunning, and Intelligence:

**Ulf (Magus)**

Int +2, Per -1, Pre +2, Com 0, Str -1, Sta +1, Dex +1, Qik +1

Wolf: Cun +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +1, Str -1, Sta +3, Dex +2, Qik +1

Ulf in Heartbeast form:

Int +2 (human value)

Per +1 (sum of human -1 and wolf +2)

Pre +2 (sum of human +2 and wolf 0)

Com +1 (sum of human 0 and wolf +1)

Str -1 (lowest of human -1 and wolf -1) Sta + 3 (highest of human + 1 and wolf + 3)

Dex +2 (highest of human +1 and wolf +2)

Qik + 1 (highest of human + 1 and wolf + 1)

#### 3. Size

Human Size has no impact on the Size statistic of the shapechanged form. However, if the animal form is within the size range of most animals (Size -4 to Size 0) and the character has a Virtue or Flaw that affects Size, then she will be a notably large or small member of her species.

#### 4. Virtues & Flaws

Apply all the Virtues and Flaws of the animal form while shapechanged, as well as all Virtues and Flaws of the human form, if applicable. For example, a Lame character is still Lame as an animal. If the animal form already has a Virtue or Flaw possessed by the character, it applies only once.

#### 5. General Abilities

Use the General Abilities of the animal form. The General Abilities of the animal form are not suitable for human bodies, and cannot be taught to human characters. None of the human General Abilities can be accessed other than languages (which can still be understood) and lores. Arcane and Academic Abilities are available to the shapechanger if he retains Intelligence. Supernatural Abilities can always be used.

#### 6. Communicating

Acquire the ability to communicate with members of the same or similar species as the shapechanged form. Animals of the same temperament and aspect, which also share the same diet and habitat, can be considered to speak dialects of the same language. Thus, it can be assumed that all eagles, hawks, and buzzards share a common language, but this differs from the shared language of the swans, storks, and herons, and also from the language spoken by songbirds.

#### 7. Wounds & Experience

Any wounds taken in the human form are reflected in the animal form, and vice versa. Thus, a human with a Medium Wound has a Medium Wound in cat form, despite the fact that if that wound had been inflicted when in cat form, it would have been more serious due to the different wound ranges of a cat and a human. Lycanthropes are an exception to this — when transforming back into human form, all wounds taken while an animal are healed, although wounds suffered as a human remain.

A character who spends a substantial amount of time in animal form may apply any experience gained for that period (either through adventuring, exposure, or practice) to the Abilities of her animal form.

