## Infernal Creatures

Infernal creatures are sometimes called demons or devils. These terms refer to the same group of creatures, and the choice of which to use is purely a matter of personal preference. There are some creatures with Infernal Might that are not true demons — physical beings that have been greatly corrupted by the Infernal. These beings may not have all the powers and features of true demons.

All demons can put off their physical forms and revert to being pure spirits at will. In combat, they can only do this on their action, but while they are not physical, they cannot attack or be attacked physically. They can also move as quickly as they like, and are not hindered by physical barriers, but they remain fully aware of their surroundings.

Demons are never noticeably bothered by The Gift. This may be because they try their best to damn everyone, so hostile behavior towards The Gifted looks no different.

#### Demonic Powers

All demons have the following powers:

**Coagulation**, 1 point per 10 Might (or fraction), Init –1, Corpus: This power allows demons to manufacture a solid body from the ambient, unformed matter of the universe. They may only take a single specific form with this power (the one described under Appearance in the demon's statistics) unless they have another power which allows them to alter it. Manifesting a physical form takes a round for every point of Infernal Might possessed by the demon; those with a high Infernal Might have more power which they must collect and force into solid form. The demon can end this power at any time, allowing its body to become finer and more rarefied and return to its natural state. Dissolution of the solid form is almost instantaneous, taking only a round of concentration from the demon, although this concentration may be disrupted.

The game statistics of a demon do not change regardless of whether it is in its physical or spiritual form, although a demon in spiritual form may not use its physical Characteristics. This power may not be a Corpus effect if the demon's body is naturally of a different substance, such as composed of elemental matter, or in the shape of an animal. Demons in Christian lands are forced to abandon their coagulated form on Holy Saturday (see Religious Limitations on Demons, later).

**Obsession**, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim. Every demon possesses a particular sin — called its Obsession Trait — which it may attempt to impose upon a mortal whenever the mortal indulges in a venial sin. A demon can only use this power when there is a chink in the armor of virtue; that is, when a person is indulging in sinful thoughts or deeds. At this moment, the demon can impose its Obsession trait, if it penetrates Magic Resistance. The victim is assailed with sinful thoughts, and acquires a Personality Trait to represent these thoughts, with a score equal to the number of Might points spent by the demon (maximum of 3). When the victim is next presented with the opportunity to act on the Obsession Trait, the victim's player must make a simple roll and add the Obsession Trait; this must be lower than a simple roll + any other suitable Personality Trait to successfully resist the impulses (a Trait which is similar to the imposed Trait may act as a penalty instead). If the Obsession roll fails, then the demon's power has failed and the Obsession trait is lost. If the Obsession roll is higher, the victim gives in to sin, permanently acquiring the Obsession Trait at +1 (or increasing it by one if he already possesses it). Any further succumbing to this trait counts as sinful, rather than as an action forced by a demon.

Each demon can inflict only certain traits, representing its particular role in the corruption of mankind, these Personality Traits are listed under the creature's powers. Due to its low initiative, it is unlikely that this power will be used by a demon when in physical combat.

> **Example of Obsession**
>
> Bartholomew has the Obsession Trait of Avarice. He sees a nun collecting alms for the orphanage, and bumps into her deliberately on the street. The nun's flash of anger over his apparent clumsiness gives Bartholomew the doorway he needs, and he imposes the Trait upon her, spending three of his Might Pool. When the nun is counting her pennies later that day, she has an opportunity to act on the demonically-induced greed, so is forced to make an Avarice personality roll. She rolls a 5, +3 for the Obsession trait for a total of 8. Her opposing die roll is only a 6, but she also has the Generous Personality Trait, for a total of 9. She resists the impulse to steal, and resolves to pray harder, shocked that she even considered such an act.
>
> The next day, Bartholomew observes a reeve fleecing his lord of taxes, and imposes his Avarice trait on him, again spending 3 points. The reeve is immediately presented with the opportunity to be even more larcenous, so must make a roll. He rolls a simple die (3) and adds the Obsession Trait of +3 for a total of 6. The opposing die roll (a 6) is penalised by the reeve's own Greedy Personality Trait of +1, and so the reeve steals even more money from his lord than he was intending. The reeve's Greedy trait increases to +2, and Bartholomew makes a note to return here again soon.

**Envisioning**, 1 or 5 points, Init +0, Mentem: This power allows a demon to appear in the dreams of a sleeping target (in which case it costs 1 point), or make the target experience a waking dream or vision (in which case it costs 5 points). A demon cannot instantly make substantial changes to a dream, but can gradually twist it to take on a darker and frightening tone, and can speak through any figure from the victim's subconscious. A waking dream is more obvious; the victim suffers an immediate and powerful hallucination of whatever the demon desires. This may be so frightening that the victim is stunned for a round, and must make a Brave Personality roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or have an extreme reaction, such as retching, convulsions or abject terror. This is the only way in which a spiritual demon can communicate with mortals.

Many (but not all) demons also have the following power:

**Possession**, variable points, Init +2, Mentem: To possess a human, the demon may expend any number of points from its Might Pool to create a Possession Might Pool; these points actually enter the possessed creature and will not be regenerated by the demon until the possession is ended. The more of its Might it expends to use this power, the more the demon can do with its host (also called an energumen), but the weaker the Penetration. If the target's resistance is overcome by this power, the victim is possessed by the demon, and is under its direct control. If the demon uses all of its current Might Pool in a possession then its spiritual form effectively enters the victim and resides within (forcing the loss of any physical form). Alternatively, a demon may divide its consciousness by only placing a portion of its Might within a victim, allowing the possessing part of it to act independently from the rest (which remains in spiritual or physical form). In this situation, the separate parts of the demon's consciousness may only communicate information learned since the split when within sight of each other; otherwise they should be considered independent copies of the demon's mind.

The demon may use any of its powers that it has sufficient Possession Might Pool to use, but these points do not regenerate until the possession ends. The demon may choose to extend its power over its host to give it Magic Resistance equal to the Possession Might, if it does so, then the host is excluded from wards against supernatural beings just as if it were the demon itself. The same is true if the host is currently under the effects of one of the demon's powers. In all other situations, the demon can 'hide' within the host, and walk through such wards with impunity.

If the demon attempts to force the victim to act contrary to his nature, or to use any of the energumen's own magical powers, the demon must spend points from its Possession Might Pool. A supernatural power (including spell-casting) requires 1 Might point per magnitude (for a spell or similar effect); 1 Might point per point of a Supernatural Ability (such as Entrancement); or Might points equal to the Might points expended by the energumen. A questionable action which is contrary to the nature of the host requires the demon to exceed the possessed being's Personality Trait roll on a stress die + Might points spent. The storyguide may give a modifier to the Personality Trait roll based on the nature of the command. Over time, exercise of the demon's Obsession power on the host may result in a reduced resistance to such questionable actions. Note that use of a supernatural power might also be contrary to the victim's nature, in which case both costs must be met.

Once the Possession Might Pool placed into the victim reaches zero, the possession ends. Note that a being can be possessed with as little as 1 Might point, as long as the demon does not wish to do too much with its host. Furthermore, a demon may possess more than one host simultaneously, and can direct each independently. Vim spells may be used on the energumen to target the demon rather than the host, these must overcome the demon's Infernal Might in the usual way, but drain the Possession Might Pool, not the Infernal Might.

#### Demons and Magic

Hermetic magic cannot pierce any deception produced by a demon, although other varieties of Supernatural Powers (particularly Divine Powers) may well be able to do so. A demon's lie is not detected with Frosty Breath of the Spoken Lie, a demonic illusion does not show up as false with Discern the Images of Truth and Falsehood, and a shape-changed demon appears to be a mundane creature if Sight of the True Form is used. Even if a magus casts a spell of compulsion on a demon, he cannot force it to tell the truth. This 'protection' from truth-revealing magics need not involve an active act of deception on behalf of the demon; the presence of a demon's Infernal Might is invisible to Hermetic magic, as is the stench of Hell in their Infernal Powers. However, only Infernal Powers used by demons are immune to detection, use of Infernal Powers by humans may be detected with Hermetic magic.

The Ease Factor for the Second Sight Ability to detect naturally invisible things (such as spirits) is normally 9. However, the sheer deceptiveness of demons is such that this Ease Factor is increased by the magnitude of their Might. If this Ability derives from non-Divine sources, then it may not pierce illusions created by demons at all, in the case of Second Sight of a Divine origin, use the normal Ease Factor of 6 + magnitude of Might to pierce these deceptions.

A Hermetic magus must be able to sense his target to affect it, and a demon in its spiritual form cannot be sensed through mundane means, nor may it be sensed through Hermetic magic due to its inherent deceptiveness. If a spiritual demon can be tricked into using its supernatural powers (and a magus is able to detect the power's effect without the use of Hermetic magic) then he can target the demon with his spells. Otherwise, he must rely on other resources such as Second Sight, Sense Holiness and Unholiness, or Divine Powers (his own or another's) to reveal the demon.

Demons can be warded off by the Form listed next to their Infernal Might, and, if in physical form, may be affected by magics corresponding to that Form. Thus, in addition to the Rego Vim spell Ward Against Demons, which affects all demons, there is a Rego Animal Ward Against Animal Demons, a Rego Aquam Ward Against Water Demons, and so forth. Demons are mostly intelligent beings and may also be targeted by Mentem spells.

The Infernal Might of a demon may be manipulated with the Art of Vim. Demons may be attacked with Perdo Vim spells such as Demon's Eternal Oblivion (or its non-Hermetic equivalents) in either form, assuming the target has been sensed. The Infernal Might of the demon is reduced by a successful casting of this spell, and the demon also loses any Might Pool that exceeds its new reduced Infernal Might. As the demon's Infernal Might is reduced, subsequent Perdo Vim spells penetrate more easily, and have greater effect. The demon's body is actually eroded using these magics, and a demon that is reduced to an Infernal Might of zero is destroyed, leaving behind no corpse (and thus no vis). Demons in either spiritual or physical form may be attacked with these spells and the result is the same.

All demons are entirely immune to magic which would cause them to act in a contrary way to their Personality Traits.

Demons may be summoned and compelled by Hermetic Magic, although the Oath of Hermes specifically forbids it. Knowing a spell which will either summon or compel a demon is grounds for expulsion from the Order and a Wizard's March.

#### Demonic Weaknesses

All demons are vulnerable to expressions of God's power, whether this is the sacraments of a faith, a prayer from a devout follower, or the relic of a saint. Relics, as supremely holy items, are anathema to demons, as described in the Realms chapter (page 419). A character who has a focus for her prayers (such as a rosary, a phylactery or so forth) and who successfully invokes God's aid to defeat a demon (see *Realms of Power: The Divine*, page 41) gains twice the usual bonus. Any object which is an intrinsic part of Divine worship, but not actually a relic in its own right (such as a Church bible, the Host, the scrolls of the Torah) is a Vulnerability (see below) of all demons.

All demons have an additional weakness. These may place limits on what a demon can and cannot do (in any form), or it might cause wounds in some circumstances, in which case only the physical form is affected. To determine whether a character has learned the weakness of a specific demon, he must have had some prior exposure to knowledge of the demon (for example, through study of a catalog of demons), and must make an Intelligence + Infernal Lore roll against an Ease Factor of 9 + (Might /5). Subtract 3 from the Ease Factor if the demon is a member of a family, for all members of a family share the same weakness. Failure indicates that the character does not know the weakness of this demon, but can make another attempt to discover it once his score in Infernal Lore increases.

Weaknesses should be chosen from the following list:

**Abhorrent Material/Circumstance:** The demon cannot abide a particular type of object or substance, or a particular circumstance. This may be a common material such as light, salt or garlic (for weak demons); or a reasonably uncommon one, such as iron horse-shoes, or objects that have been given names, or charms made of rowan wood, for the more powerful demons. The material or circumstance inflicts no actual damage, but should such a thing come into the demon's presence, it must flee; or else spend a Confidence point to remain for two minutes. If it is unable to do either, then a brave or foolhardy soul may be able to strike a bargain with the demon using the advantage he has gained. A demon in the presence of its Abhorrent Material or Circumstance cannot regain spent Might points. This weakness affects demons in both spiritual and physical form, but demons possessing a human are more resistant to their weaknesses, and may make a Stamina roll against an Ease Factor of 6 to remain in the presence of the abhorred material. If the roll is failed, they must either make their host flee, or if this is not possible, end the possession and flee themselves.

**Compulsiveness:** The demon is compelled to enumerate randomly-scattered objects; if, for example, a jar of beans is scattered in the path of this demon, it must count every one before it can proceed. The objects must be purposefully scattered in sight of the demon to hinder it.

**Ordering:** The demon has no power over anything which is sealed, counted, measured or tied up. It cannot open sealed vessels, steal grain from a bushel (although it can falsify the weighing in the first place), and so forth. Many demons in Jewish lore have this limitation.

**Protected Group:** The demon cannot act directly against a particular, reasonably common, group of people. It may not be able to affect children, or men with beards, or female Muslims. None of its supernatural powers work on this group, and if they face it in combat, it can only defend itself. A person who is not a member of the protected group is safe from the demon if he remains within a defined group of at least 9 others who are protected from the demon. Likewise, 2 vulnerable people can hide within a group with a total size of twenty, and so forth.

**Running Water:** The demon cannot cross running water. This must be fresh water deriving directly from within the earth — spilled water from a jar will not hinder them.

**Vulnerability:** A certain substance (see Abhorrent Material for example) causes a Light Wound to the demon merely by touch. The more powerful the demon, the rarer this substance should be. Any weapons made of the material to which the demon is vulnerable inflict a Light Wound to the demon on a successful attack in addition to any damage inflicted as a result of the attack, even if the demon's soak absorbed all the other damage. Light is a common Vulnerability of weak demons.

#### Demons and Free Will

All demons possess free will as an essential part of their nature, but they have already made the choice for evil (or, as Judaism would have it, are doing God's will by being evil). Because demons are dominated by their evil inclinations, they always act according to their selfish and wicked impulses. Demons are wholly corrupt, so the free choices they make are also wholly corrupt. Demons have no virtues at all, which includes such virtues as patience, courage, and self-control. This means that demons are not good at elaborate long-term plans that provide no immediate pay-off. The mastermind behind such a plan would be a human diabolist, or a faerie. See Chapter 4 of *Realms of Power: The Infernal* for more information on using demons in a saga.

Confidence is an aspect of free will, representing the ability of demons to put aside their base impulses and act in a rational manner. Not all demons have Confidence, so some demons are incapable of acting against the dictates of their passions.

> #### Religious Limitations on Demons
>
> In Christian lands, all demons are forced to abandon their physical form at dawn on Holy Saturday (the day between Good Friday and Easter Day), furthermore, no demon may spend Might points from this point until dusk on Easter Day. This is a reminder of Christ's victory over Satan and subsequent descent into Hell to bring the good news to the souls trapped there.
>
> For Jewish families, if all sins committed in the past year by the adults of the household are atoned and forgiven in the five days between the holy days of Yom Kippur and Sukkot (in September–October), then all demons who are currently affecting their family must flee the household and not return for a year.
>
> No demon can use any Infernal Might to directly affect a Muslim who has completed the hajj (pilgrimage to Mecca) within the last year. The hajj must be properly and devoutly performed to grant this immunity.

#### Demons, Auras and Regiones

Infernal creatures recover spent power more quickly in Infernal auras and regiones. Might Pool usually refreshes at a constant rate such that that all Might would be restored in a day; i.e. Infernal Might / 24 points per hour. In an Infernal aura, it refreshes at a faster rate:

**NUMBER OF HOURS TO RESTORE ALL MIGHT: 24 - (2 x Infernal Aura)**

**MIGHT POINTS RESTORED PER HOUR: Infernal Might / Number of hours**

Thus a demon with an Infernal Might of 25 resting in an Infernal aura of 6 regains 25 points in 12 hours (approximately 2 points an hour), which is twice as fast as usual.

A demon cannot regenerate any Might in a Divine aura. In all other auras they refresh their Might at the usual rate.

### Baal-Peor, Lord of Filth

Infernal Might: 30 (Corpus)

Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre -5, Com +1, Str +4, Sta +5, Dex +1, Qik +1

Size: +2

Confidence Score: 3 (9 points)

Virtues and Flaws: Oversensitive (coitus), Obese

Personality Traits: Proud +6, Hungry +3, Shame -3

Reputations: Treasurer of Hell 6 (Infernal), Demon of Filth 5 (Infernal)

Combat:

Noxious Vomit: Init +9, Attack +12, Defense n/a, Damage +12\*

Claws: Init +4, Attack +5, Defense +6, Damage +6\*\*

\* See power description

\*\* Claws are coated in excrement. Unless injuries are cleaned carefully, they will fester and never heal. A roll on the Recovery Table that results in an Improvement indicates stability, while a Stable result indicates that the wound worsens. Once the infection has set in, only Divine aid in healing cleanses the wounds.

Soak: +8

Fatigue levels: OK, 0/0, -1/-1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-7), -3 (8-14), -5 (15-21), Incapacitated (22–28)

Abilities: Artes Liberales 4 (arithmetic), Brawl 4 (claws), Civil and Canon Law 4 (trade), Folk Ken 6 (fornication), Infernal Lore 5 (wealth), Intrigue 7 (envy), Medicine 4 (poisons), Profession: Merchant 7 (unfair deals)

Powers:

Form of Woman, 0 points, Init 0, Corpus: Baal-Peor can take the form of a woman, although he cannot use this power to mimic a specific woman. He always chooses a form which will be considered beautiful by the target audience of his schemes.

Noxious Vomit, 1 point, Init +9, Corpus: This power allows Baal-Peor to spray vast amounts of vomit (or, facing the other way, even less pleasant substances) through an area. His vomit is an expression of his spiritual vileness, and does the damage indicated in his combat statistic through corrosion, except to characters with True Faith, whom it cannot touch. The target must make a Strength + Size stress roll against an Ease Factor of 9 or be sent flying backwards. Anyone successfully struck by this vileness continues to suffer +3 damage in each round until it is washed off. This damage does not stack for multiple successful attacks.

Swallow Assault, 5 points, Init +3, Terram: Baal-Peor may avoid injury from mundane objects by opening his maw so wide that the attack slides harmlessly down his throat.

Coagulation, 3 points, Init −1, Corpus

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Shamelessness, Gluttony

Shroud the Stench of the Pit, variable points, Init +3, Vim: This power may be used in two manners, both of which affect the expression of other supernatural powers. A demon can conceal the Infernal nature of any other supernatural power, making it appear to be magical or faerie instead. This power is used on an overt expression of power, to prevent spells from recognizing it as infernal in origin. Secondly, it may be used on more subtle powers to remove all stench of the supernatural, making them appear wholly mundane. This power costs Might points equal to the original cost of the power being concealed, or Might points equal to the magnitude of the Infernal effect if it does not cost might to use. This power lasts for as long as the power it is masking.

The Wealth of Nations, 3 points, Init 0, Terram: The demon can summon riches, each use of this power can create wealth equivalent to up to pound of gold for every point of Infernal Might possessed by the demon. This wealth can be of any form — gold, gems, rich tapestries, ivory, etc. — but it is always has intrinsic value, rather than being valuable because of its utility (a roomful of grain, for example). This wealth is not created, it is instead summoned from somewhere else, chosen by the demon, usually for the greatest effect. This might be a royal treasury on the other side of Europe or the purse of the man standing next to you.

His Master's Voice, variable points, Init +1, Vim: The demon can summon other demons or corrupt beasts to its current location. This costs one Might point for every point of Infernal Might of the being summoned, so is used sparingly. The demon has no control over the demon he has summoned.

Weakness: Running water

Vis: 6 pawns of Perdo, in tongue

Appearance: Baal-Peor appears as an immensely fat naked man, with rolls of flab cascading down his body. He is completely hairless, and has a repulsive, snake—like tongue. He wears a serpent wrapped around his girth like a belt, and its head is usually draped over his shoulder.

Baal-Peor (or Belphegor) is a demon of wealth. He creates discord by moving mortal riches in disruptive ways (using the Wealth of Nations power). He gives money to the vulnerable, so that the strong are tempted to take it. He gives the possessions of the powerful to others. This tempts the recipients to keep their stolen treasures, and rouses the powerful to recover them by force.

Baal-Peor was worshipped, in ancient times, less as a wealth-god than as an embodiment of the desire to consume everything and transform it into vileness. His title, "Lord of the Openings" describes him: an unfillable mouth leading to a ceaseless defecation. Priests and pilgrims used the space before his statue as a latrine, as a form of worship. Baal-Peor, it is said, was sent by his masters to seek the truth of rumors that humans lived in marital bliss. He tried to live as a woman, but was so disgusted by marital relations that he fled back to Hell.

### Bartholomew

Infernal Might: 50 (Mentem)

Characteristics: Int +3, Per +2, Pre +3, Com +5, Str –1, Sta 0, Dex –1, Qik –1

Size: 0 Age: n/a (50)

Confidence Score: 2 (9) Virtues and Flaws: None

Personality Traits: Slothful +3, Gregarious +2, Retiring –2

Reputations: Excellent adviser on money matters 5 (local)

Combat:

Fist: Init -1, Attack -1, Defense -1, Damage -1

Soak: +8

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20)

Abilities: [Area] Lore 6 (trade routes) (Three of these, for the area where he lives, the larger area including it, and the whole of Europe), Artes Liberales 2 (arithmetic), Bargain 10 (trade goods), Charm 5 (merchants), Etiquette 4 (merchants), Folk Ken 8 (merchants), Guile 10 (trading), Intrigue 5 (market politics), Language 6 (trade talk), Latin 6 (ecclesiastical), Profession (merchant) 10 (cloth)

Powers:

Merchant's Blessing, 2 points, Init +0, Mentem: The recipient of this blessing seems trustworthy to most people, and gets a +3 bonus on all social rolls to do with trading. People react to him as if he has an excellent reputation for honesty, fair dealing, and getting high quality goods cheaply. The blessing lasts for a week, unless Bartholomew chooses to renew it.

Merchant's Curse, 1 point, Init +0, Mentem: The inverse of Merchant's Blessing, this curse makes people treat the victim as if he had a strong reputation for dishonesty, cheating and reneging on deals, and selling shoddy goods at inflated prices. He also has a –3 penalty to all social rolls to do with trading. The curse lasts for a week, unless Bartholomew chooses to renew it.

Merchant's Knowledge, 0 points, automatic, Mentem: Bartholomew knows what someone in receipt of his curses or blessings is doing with their business.

Project Blessing, 2 points, Init +0, Vim: Bartholomew can bless a particular commercial venture, so that chance favors it whenever possible. This results in a very successful trading venture. The blessing only lasts for one day, which isn't normally long enough to have an effect, but Bartholomew can renew the blessing every day, if he so chooses.

Project Curse, 1 point, Init +0, Vim: The inverse of Project Blessing, this effect makes everything that could go wrong, go wrong. It takes at most a month to drive someone to bankruptcy through this power. As for the blessing, the curse only lasts for one day at a time.

Coagulation, 3 points, Init –1, Corpus

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init -5, Vim: Avarice

Equipment: Fine clothes, a nice house, trade goods. Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Weakness: Ordering

Vis: 10 pawns of Mentem vis, one in each of his fingers. Infernally tainted.

Appearance: Bartholomew appears as an older, but still vigorous, merchant. He is plump, but not fat, and while he never appears positively cheerful, he also never seems angry, or impatient, at least not with other merchants. His clothes are of excellent quality and taste.

Bartholomew is a well-established and moderately successful merchant in a trading city. He is known for being lazy, but still making an extremely comfortable living from his trade. He also willingly gives advice to other merchants, and they have noticed that following his advice makes them rich, while disregarding it makes them poor. Most people in the city also think that Bartholomew attends church regularly. In fact, being a demon, he has never set foot inside a consecrated building. He has, on the other hand, made substantial donations to the Church, and those donations are well known.

The advice he gives is good business advice in itself, but he normally backs it up with his blessings, at least for a while. If his advice is ignored, he uses his curses to make sure that people suffer. The demonic features of his advice are very, very subtle. Merchants following them often find that they need to work on Sundays, although Bartholomew does not explicitly suggest that, and that they are often away from home on religious holidays, and thus unable to attend their local church. Further, he gives advice about charity, suggesting that the merchant give money away to reinforce his social standing. He also gives extensive advice on how to calculate how much to give, so that it doesn't cause the merchant financial problems.

This has the effect of making the merchant feel that he is doing a lot of good by giving alms, while removing any actual virtue it has. Anyone following Bartholomew's advice gives only for their own glory, and thus earns no merit. They are sinners, but they don't realize that they are, and thus they do not see the need to repent and reform. Bartholomew's strategy is subtle, but it wins many souls for Hell.

### Bomburkhan

Infernal Might: 5 (Vim)

Characteristics: Int -2, Per 0, Pre 0, Com 0, Str -9, Sta +1, Dex +6, Qik +7

Size: -9

Virtues and Flaws: Weak-Willed, Short Attention Span

Personality Traits: Resentment of Being Controlled +5, Selfish +5, Brave -6

Reputations: none

Combat:

Dodge: Init +7, Attack n/a, Defense +14, Damage n/a

Soak: +1

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious Wound Penalties: -1 (1), -3 (2), -5 (3), Incapacitated (4) Abilities: Athletics 5 (flying), Brawl 6 (dodge), Guile 6 (boasts)

Powers:

Make a Liar of the Boastful, 5 points, Init 0, Vim: If this imp hears a boast and expends all of his Might points, he can immediately grant someone nearby an Ability or Power which will contradict that boast, and cause them to use it immediately. Thus if someone proclaims that she is the most beautiful woman in France, Bomburkhan can immediately make someone more beautiful than the boaster. This power must penetrate Magic Resistance to grant the Ability or power to the person, and that talent lasts for 1–10 rounds only (roll a simple die). A physical change, such as the example given above, lasts until the boaster and the target can no longer see each other.

Insignificance, 0 points, Init 0, Vim: No Magic, Infernal or Faerie power can force Bomburkhan to use any of his nowers

Misfortune, 0 points, Init 0, Vim: As an agent of misfortune, the presence of the demon causes the worst luck. In games of sheer chance, the odds always favor the opponent of the imp's target. In other matters where luck is more of a factor than judgement or skill, the target receives a penalty of -2 to any rolls. This misfortune lasts until the demon grows bored or is driven off

Coagulation, 1 point, Init –1, Corpus

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init -5, Vim: Boastful

Weakness: Vulnerability (salt) Vis: 1 pawn of Vim, in wings

Appearance: Bomburkhan appears as a jet-black bat, no bigger than a person's hand, but with a pinched and twisted human face protruding from the black fur.

Bomburkhan was released from Hell after the false bravado of a Crusader led to the capture of Jerusalem. Since then he has taken great delight in puncturing the over-inflated egos of the prideful. This demon has an ability that could be exceedingly powerful, depending upon the magnitude of a speaker's self-importance. For example, should a magus declaim "no-one can breach my Parma Magica!", a nearby grog might suddenly hurl a Pilum of Fire which slices straight through it! Fortunately for all concerned, this power uses all of Bomburkhan's Might pool, and he grows bored very easily, wandering off once his mischief is done.

### Bordelon, a Personal Tormentor

Infernal Might: 15 (Corpus)

Characteristics: Int +2, Per +1, Pre 0, Com +2, Str -1, Sta 0, Dex +3, Qik +4

Size: 0

Confidence Score: 1 (3 points)

Virtues and Flaws: Piercing Gaze, Puissant Leadership

Personality Traits: Cruel +6, Stern +5, Implacable +3

Reputations: None

Combat:

Switch: Init +6, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +4

Soak: +2

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16–20)

Abilities: Leadership 6+2 (children), Single Weapon 5 (switch)

Powers:

Crushing the Will, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem: This power saps the will and vitality of its target, leaving him listless, less energetic and withdrawn. All Personality Trait rolls suffer a —3 modifier, and the target may not spend Confidence points to increase other rolls. Each use of this power lasts until the victim has slept for at least 6 hours.

Chastise the Disobedient, 0 points, Init +3, Corpus: Every strike of Bordelon's switch inflicts a fearsome sting. Double the wound penalties inflicted by the weapon, although these extra penalties vanish after an hour. Wound penalties caused by any actual wounds she inflicts are healed as normal.

Coagulation, 2 points, Init -1, Corpus

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Shame

Betrayal of the Heart, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem: Bordelon can see into the hearts of mankind and draw forth the most secret thoughts — people's fears and sins. Each use of this power reveals to the demon one fact about the target to which he would never admit. Truly holy people may be immune to this power, if they have no secrets, no matter how petty.

Whispers Behind the Back, 2 points, Init 0, Mentem: Exactly as the spell Pains of the Perpetual Worry, this power gives the victim a nagging, taunting, painful emotion linked to their secret sins. It is a recurrent sense of anxiety that their secret will be uncovered, and a suspicion that everyone already knows it and is taking about the target behind his back. This power lasts for a month.

Weakness: Protected Group (red-haired women)

Vis: 3 pawns of Mentem, in hair.

Appearance: Bordelon appears as a stern-faced old woman, with hair tied back in such a tight bun that it distorts her face. Her small horns are hidden within this hair. Her skin is mottled with liver-spots, and she wears an austere gown which covers her cloven hooves and forked tail. She affects the demeanor of a stern governess. She carries a switch of willow bound with leather, which she wields with expert ability to inflict the most pain.

Bordelon believes that meekness is a virtue, and that those who strive to better themselves are victims of pride. Her goal is to crush all ambition and prevent those whom she watches from committing the very sin of Satan himself. Bordelon chooses a child early on in his life, and becomes his personal tormentor (granting the Story Flaw Plagued by a Demon). The child soon learns that the demon's periodic appearances are more frequent whenever he tries to distinguish himself from his peers, so her victims tend to become withdrawn. unambitious and meek. Whenever her victim acts in a way that would grant a Confidence point due to increased selfworth, he can expect a visit from Bordelon to punish the presumption.

### The Buran of Yenghissar

Infernal Might: 25 (Auram)

Characteristics: Int -5, Per 0, Pre +3, Com -2, Str n/a, Sta n/a, Dex +3, Qik +6

Size: +4

Confidence Score: 1 (3)

Virtues and Flaws: Jinni, Berserk, Strong-Willed, Wilderness Sense, Fury (Major) (when summoned), Greater Malediction (bound by bargains), Mute

Personality Traits: Untameable +5

Reputations: Scourge of Yenghissar 2 (local)

Combat: Not applicable, the buran is an insubstantial spirit

Soak: Not applicable, the buran is an insubstantial spirit

Wound Penalties: Not applicable, the buran is an insubstantial spirit

Abilities: Arabic 5 (understanding)\*, Folk Ken 3 (travelers), Theology: Islam 3 (jinn), Survival 5 (desert), Taklamakan Lore 5 (legends), Wilderness Sense 2 (weather)

\* Represents level of understanding as the spirit is Mute.

Delusion of the Desert, 1 or 5 points, Init +3, Imaginem: This evil spirit can create illusions of a lost traveler's companions or a welcoming oasis, only to launch itself in fury at an unsuspecting victim. Alternatively it can create images of itself as a humanoid sandstorm with glowing fiery eyes in order to terrify its victims prior to their deaths. A minor illusion which affects an Individual amount of material (such as the demon itself) costs one point, a larger illusion which fills a room costs five points. These visions always have a flaw, however (they smell wrong, can only be seen by one target, etc.).

Elemental Control of Wind, variable points; Init +1; Auram: The buran has control over the winds of nature, which it uses to wreak destruction on the desert fringes. It may create any Creo, Muto, or Rego effect appropriate to Auram, at a cost of 1 Might Point per magnitude of effect. The demon cannot create any effect with a level greater than its Infernal Might, nor duplicate Ritual effects.

Recalcitrance, 0 points, Init constant, Vim: Any attempt to control (but not destroy) the buran with any form of Supernatural Power (magical, Divine, or otherwise) treats the demon's Might as if it were 150% its actual Might, or otherwise has its Ease Factor increased by 50%. For example, a Circular Ward Against Demons of 38th level is needed to stop this demon.

Weaknesses: Protected Group (individuals that invoke the Bismillah invocation)

Vis: 5 pawns of Auram vis prava, left behind as black sand when dispersed.

Appearance: Usually manifests as a giant shapeless vortex of raging black sand using its Auram powers. To those with Second Sight, a giant humanoid shadow can be discerned within the sandstorm.

This wild desert storm spirit, or buran, once plagued the small village of Yenghissar along the route to Khashgar, bringing devastation to the crops and herd animals every seven years. It is now bound by an Infernally-aligned sahir using the Goetic Art of Binding (see *Realms of Power: The Infernal*, page 117). A speechless, destructive force of fury incarnate, it rages to be released and constantly strives to create elemental havoc around the thoughtless sahir who has trapped it within his ancestral sword.

Unlike many other corrupt jinn, the buran lacks the Coagulation and Obsession powers common to most demons and is an insubstantial spirit, unable to affect the physical world except through its magic. It is an example of an Infernal storm spirit likely to be found in the Taklamakan Desert, although much stronger and less powerful creatures also exist (see *The Cradle and the Crescent*, Chapter 9: On the Silk Road and Beyond...). Many travelers' tales tell of companions fallen behind who are tempted off the track by the illusions created by these demons.

### Fimus, Warrior Demon

Infernal Might: 10 (Terram)

Characteristics: Int -2, Per +2, Pre -2, Com +2, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex 0, Qik -4

Size: +2

Virtues and Flaws: Puissant Great Weapon, Poor Eyesight, Simple-Minded

Personality Traits: Untamable +5, Intimidating +3 Reputations: Champion of Hell 1 (Infernal)

Combat:

Cudgel: Init –3, Attack +13, Defense +6, Damage +11

Fist: Init –4, Attack +6, Defense +2, Damage +4

Soak: +15

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious 

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-7), -3 (8-14), -5 (15-21), Incapacitated (22–28)

Abilities: Athletics 3 (pursuit), Awareness 4 (foes), Brawl 5 (fist), Great Weapon 6+2 (cudgel)

Powers:

Elemental Control of Earth, variable points, Init +1, Terram: Fimus has control over earth, which he uses to wreak destruction in the world. He may create any Creo, Muto or Rego effect appropriate to Terram, at a cost of 1 might point per magnitude of effect. The demon cannot create any effect with a level greater than his Infernal Might, nor duplicate Ritual effects. He prefers effects such as Wielding the Invisible Sling and Rusted Decay of Ten-Score Years.

Born of Rock, 0 points, Init 0, Terram: The body of this demon is made from solid rock. This makes it exceedingly heavy and almost impossible to harm with mundane means.

Death's Vengeance, 0 points, Init +10, Terram: Upon death, this demon's body explodes, sending shards of debris up to 20 paces in all directions. Treat this as a physical attack against all within range that can be dodged but not otherwise defended against. The Attack Bonus is +12, and the Damage is +15.

Coagulation, 1 point, Init -1, Corpus

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init -5, Vim: Cowardice

Recalcitrance, 0 points, Init constant, Vim: Any attempt to control (but not destroy) the demon with any form of supernatural power (Magical, Divine or otherwise) treats the demon's Might as if it were one and a half times its actual Might, or otherwise has its Ease Factor increased by 50%. For example, a Circular Ward Against Demons of 30th level is needed to stop Fimus.

Weakness: Abhorrent Material (Cinnamon)

Vis: 2 pawns of Terram, in eye.

Appearance: Fimus appears as an immense man apparently put together out of boulders. He has but one eye, in the center of his forehead. He carries an immense cudgel made out of a stalagmite.

Fimus is but one of many brother-demons (all with the same name); their mother produces more every time she evacuates her bowels. He and his brothers are popular foot-soldiers and shocktroops used by other demons, because they are effective warriors, and too stupid to effectively entertain rebellious thoughts. Each of the brothers has a different Abhorrent Material, depending upon what their mother had been eating prior to their birth.

### Michael

Infernal Might: 10 (Corpus)

Characteristics: Int +2, Per +2, Pre -2, Com -2, Str 0, Sta 0, Dex +1, Qik +1

Size: -2 to +1

Age: n/a (varies)

Virtues and Flaws: None

Personality Traits: Cruel +3, Wrathful +3

Reputations: None

Combat: Michael does not normally fight, and if he does he uses whatever weapons are suitable for his current disguise.

Soak: +0 (unless wearing armor)

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20) (Michael always takes wounds as a Size 0 creature, even if his current Size is different.)

Abilities: Athletics 5 (running away), Awareness 4 (victims), Craft (practical jokes) 8 (painful and humiliating ones), Folk Ken 5 (figuring out what will make someone most angry), Guile 10 (pretending to be someone else), Intrigue 3 (maneuvering people into his plots)

Change Form, 0 points, Init +0, Corpus: Michael can change his appearance to match that of any human being. The change includes clothes and other equipment, as necessary.

Coagulation, 3 points, Init -1, Corpus

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init -5, Vim: Sensitivity to Mockery

Working Material, 1 point, Init +0, Terram: Michael can create whatever he needs to set up a particular practical joke.

Equipment: Whatever is appropriate to his current role.

Encumbrance: Varies

Weakness: Abhorrent Material (salt)

Vis: 2 pawns of Muto in his heart (Infernally tainted) Appearance: Michael appears as he needs to for his latest role. As a demon, he doesn't need, nor does he have, a 'natural' form.

Michael (he likes taking the name of a famous angel) is a minor demon who tempts people to wrath. He sets up elaborate, painful, and humiliating practical jokes, and makes sure that he is seen in the form of one of the victim's friends while doing so. If possible, he ensures that the victim sees him, in the form of the friend, laughing at their misfortune before running away.

He normally stays around to watch the resulting confrontation, because if it isn't heated enough he sets up another, even more hurtful, joke. He is especially happy if both friends become angry, and the friendship is ruined. Since both parties feel that the other was unreasonable, sometimes they can nurse their anger for years, which is exactly what Michael wants.

While Michael's jokes are normally painful and humiliating, they are almost never fatal. He wants people to sin so that they damn their souls, not die and possibly go to Heaven.

### Polandrus

Infernal Might: 20 (Animal)

Characteristics: Int +1, Per +2, Pre 0, Com +2, Str +2, Sta +2, Dex +2, Qik +3

Size: 0

Age: n/a

Confidence Score: 1 (3)

Virtues and Flaws: None

Personality Traits: Envious +3, Proud +2, Calculating +2

Reputations: None

Combat:

Bite: Init +18, Attack +11, Defense +9, Damage +8

Soak: +6

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, –1/–1/–1, –3, –5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20)

Abilities: [Area] Lore 3 (livestock), Bargain 7 (for sins), Brawl 5 (bite), Charm 4 (frightened people), Folk Ken 3 (peasants), Guile 8 (when making deals), Hunt 6 (livestock), Language 6 (making deals), Leadership 4 (wolves), Survival 5 (woods)

Powers:

Calm Person, 1 point, Init +18, Mentem: Makes the target person unnaturally calm about talking to a large wolf. It doesn't lessen their fear, just the sense that it is something they should act on immediately.

Dominate Wolves, 0 points, Init +18, Animal: Polandrus can establish absolute control over any wolf. The wolf doesn't like it, but Polandrus doesn't care. This power applies to mundane wolves, wolves with Might scores, and to characters who can naturally take the form of a wolf, including shapechangers, lycanthropes, skinchangers, and Bjornaer with wolf heartbeasts, but not including magi who change using spells. Once established, the domination lasts until Polandrus decides to drop it, the dominated wolf enters a Dominion aura of level 3 or higher, or someone dispels the power.

Coagulation, 3 points, Init -1, Animal

Obsession, 1 to 3 points, Init –5, Vim: Secrecy

Equipment: None Encumbrance: 0 (0)

Weakness: Vulnerability (Holly)

Vis: 1 pawn of Animal in each of four large canine teeth, all Infernally tainted.

Appearance: An extremely large, jet black wolf, with red eyes.

Polandrus targets livestock farmers. He dominates a few wolves, and then kills some livestock, making sure that someone sees the wolves do it. A little later, he confronts the peasant in question, offering to ensure that the wolves do not attack for a week if the farmer does something innocuous, such as not wear a particular tunic. Polandrus comes back every week, and the requirements gradually become sinful, and more and more heinous. By the end, the wolf relies more on the threat to expose the farmer's deeds than on the threat to the livestock.

Polandrus is unnaturally fast in combat, much more so than in normal situations. However, he never attacks people unless he is attacked first.

### Corrupt Beasts

Corrupt beasts can come about in a number of different ways. Some are mundane beasts corrupted directly by the power of a demon, while others are born corrupt after a coupling between a demon and a beast. Creatures that dwell in an Infernal aura become corrupted by the very nature of the area, this may only become apparent in the offspring of animals moving into a weak Infernal aura, but is a result of Infernal Warping in stronger auras. Certain Infernal auras may corrupt a creature overnight. Finally, diabolists and Infernalists may have the power to create corrupt beasts, either intentionally or as an unintended side effect of their powers.

To create the game statistics of a Corrupt Beast, start with the statistics of a mundane beast, and apply the Corrupted Beast Flaw. Balance this Flaw with a Virtue, or, if the beast has been corrupted for a long time, or was born in this state, apply more Flaws to acquire further Virtues. Virtues and Flaws for Corrupted Beasts may only be chosen from the accompanying list. The corpse of a corrupted beast typically contains one pawn of vis for each five points of Might it possessed.

#### Virtues and Flaws for Corrupted Beasts

**Virtues:** Greater Immunity, Greater Infernal Power, Ferocity, Lesser Immunity, Lesser Infernal Power

**Flaws:** Horrifying Appearance, Corrupted Beast (compulsory), Demonic Weakness, Lesser Malediction

##### Corrupted Beast

Minor Supernatural Flaw, animals only

The creature has been corrupted by Infernal power, and has acquired an Infernal Might of 5. The negative side of its character is brought to the fore, and it acquires one sinful Personality Trait at +6, such as Violent, Gluttonous or Lustful. As part of the corruption, the beast acquires some sort of disgusting or repellent appearance, decreasing its Presence to -6. However, should the animal make any attempt to scare or intimidate an opponent, this should be treated as a Presence of +6. Despite this deformity, it is possible (although difficult) to pass the animal off as a natural member of its species. Finally, the creature acquires the Tainted with Evil Flaw which affects the reactions of both humans and other animals towards it. Corrupted Beasts do not react negatively to The Gift.

##### Demonic Weakness

Minor Supernatural Flaw, Corrupted Beasts only

The beast has a weakness similar to that of a demon. Corrupt Beasts cannot have the Ordering or Compulsion Weaknesses.

##### Horrifying Appearance

Major Supernatural Flaw, Corrupted Beasts only

The creature is hideously deformed in some way, and this deformity causes a major hindrance to its life. These deformities may have some minor side benefit (a creature without a skeleton can seep through cracks, for example), but prevent the animal from ever being passed off as a member of its original species.

> ##### Example Horrifying Appearances
>
> A pair of huge but useless wings which hang limply at the sides of the creature's body.
>
> Transparent skin, so that its organs can be seen pulsating within the flesh.
>
> A snake's body instead of hindquarters, forcing the creature to move with a combined crawl and slither.
> 
> No internal skeleton. The beast can force itself into its original form for short periods, but soon collapses into a puddle of hair, teeth and claws, oozing slowly along the ground.
>
> A head at each end of the body, or in the center of the back.

##### Greater Infernal Power

Major Supernatural Virtue, Corrupted Beasts only

Choosing this Virtue adds 5 to the Infernal Might of the Corrupt Beast. The creature has an Infernal Power which it may activate by spending points from its Might Pool. Design the effect as if it were a Hermetic spell, or an Infernal Power, if you have Realms of Power: The Infernal. The level of effect cannot exceed the Corrupted Beast's (Infernal Might + 10).

A Greater Power typically costs its magnitude in Might points to activate, and has an Init bonus equal to Qik + magnitude. A power is a Greater Infernal Power if it requires a Penetration total to work. Corrupt Beasts may have this Virtue more than once, each for a different power. Infernal Might increases for each Power acquired.

##### Lesser Infernal Power

Minor Supernatural Virtue, Corrupted Beasts only

Choosing this Virtue adds 2 to the Infernal Might of the Corrupt Beast. The creature has an Infernal Power which either affects it constantly or may be activated by spending points from its Might Pool. Design the effect as if it were a Hermetic spell, or an Infernal Power if you have Realms of Power: The Infernal, but adjust the level for Constant Effect or Maintaining Concentration if appropriate (ignoring other Effect Modifications). The level of effect cannot exceed the Corrupted Beast's Infernal Might. A Minor power typically costs 0-2 Might points to activate, and has an Init bonus equal to magnitude. A Lesser Infernal Power cannot have a Penetration Total; if the power would have to exceed the Magic Resistance of a target to operate (even if they do not have any Magic Resistance), then it is a Greater Power instead. Corrupt Beasts may have this Virtue more than once, each for a different power. Infernal Might increases for each Power acquired.

#### Demonic Steed

Infernal Might: 7 (Animal)

Characteristics: Cun –2, Per 0, Pre –6, Com –4, Str +4, Sta +4, Dex +1, Qik +1

Size: +3

Virtues and Flaws: Enduring Constitution, Improved Characteristics, Lesser Infernal Power\*, Long Winded; Proud; Corrupted Beast\*

\* These Virtues and Flaws are a result of its corruption

Personality Traits: Vain +6, Brave +1

Combat:

Kick: Init +3, Attack +7, Defense +7, Damage +5

Soak: +4

Fatigue levels: OK, 0/0, /0/0, -2, -4, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-8), -3 (9-16), -5 (17-24), Incapacitated (25-32)

Abilities: Athletics 5 (long-distance running), Brawl 3 (hooves)

Powers:

The Unimpeded Traveler, 0 points, Init +1, Animal: This steed is not impeded by poor terrain, and may move at maximum speed along even the poorest of roads, achieving 30 miles a day. It may even cross open water and chasms, unsupported by ground, but can do this only at a trotting pace.

Vis: 2 pawns of Animal, in hooves.

Appearance: A fearsome black stallion with bloodshot eyes, fangs in its mouth, and hooves of iron.

This horse is one of three created by an Infernalist magus in a tribunal at the fringes of the Order by repeated applications of a tainted version of *Steed of Vengeance* (Muto Animal Level 35). There were many failures before he successfully created these three corrupted beasts. Because the spell is well-known, he is able to use the steeds in front of other magi with impunity.

#### Two-headed Hound

Infernal Might: 10 (Animal)

Characteristics: Cun 0, Per +2, Pre -6, Com 0, Str 0, Sta +2, Dex +1, Qik +2

Size: 0

Ferocity Score: 1 (3 points)

Virtues and Flaws: Greater Infernal Power\*, Ferocity\* (against intruders), Improved Characteristics, Long Winded, Sharp Ears, Horrifying Appearance\*, Reckless, Corrupted Beast\*

\* These Virtues and Flaws are a result of its corruption

Personality Traits: Hatred of Owner +6, Hatred of Humans +5, Hatred of Self +3, Reckless +3, Vigilant +1

Combat:

Bite: Init +2, Attack +11, Defense +10, Damage +1

Soak: +2

Fatigue levels: OK, 0, -1, -3, -5, Unconscious

Wound Penalties: -1 (1-5), -3 (6-10), -5 (11-15), Incapacitated (16-20)

Abilities: Athletics 4 (pursuit), Awareness 4 (keeping watch), Brawl 6 (bite), Hunt 4 (track by scent)

Powers:

Spit Fire, 4 points, Init +6, Ignem: The hound may spit a bolt of fire at its opponents; which does +15 damage to the individual it hits. The creature may bite one opponent and spit fire at another in the same round.

Vis: 2 pawns of Vim, one in each head.

Appearance: This huge dog has two slavering heads protruding from its massive shoulders. The two heads are cursed with independent minds which clearly hate each other and would like nothing more than to bite the other, it is only because the hound's necks are too short that it cannot. The dog is covered in gray fur in the few areas which are not affected by mange, which has left patches of puffy, purulent red flesh.

This corrupted beast was created by a diabolist to be a guard for his sanctum. He controls it with an Infernal charm, but is fearful of the day that this charm fails, for he knows that the dog hates him.

