## Making It Historical

If you are playing a historical roleplaying game, you want the stories to feel historical. You should not attempt to do this by avoiding errors, because mood is better set by positive, obvious features of the story, rather than by omissions. Thus, you should include historical features and make them an important part of the story.

Some aspects of this are both easy and obvious. There are castles, and knights riding around in armor. However, these features of the environment do not distinguish Mythic Europe from many generic fantasy settings. If you want the game to feel properly medieval, rather than vaguely medieval, you need to do a bit more.

One possibility is to introduce known historical figures. The main problem with this is that most players will only have heard of the most famous medieval figures, generally kings and saints, and it can spoil suspension of disbelief if they show up all the time. On the other hand, if your saga is set in northern Italy a little before the canonical date it is entirely realistic to have St Francis of Assisi wander past every so often. Still, it is unwise to rely on famous medieval people entirely. If your players have more background knowledge on the period, less famous figures might work just as well, and you could make several historical figures into recurring NPCs.

A second possibility is to have the characters turn up at famous historical events. This suffers from some of the same problems as using historical characters, and has an additional potential problem. If you decide that you want the course of history in your saga to match the course of recorded history, you will have to stop the player characters changing anything. This is, in general, a bad way to write stories.

Another approach is to make distinctively medieval things central to a story. This is much easier than it sounds, for two reasons. First, you only need to find out one thing for each story. For example, you might learn that medieval people went on frequent pilgrimages to saints' tombs, and then build a story around a pilgrimage. You don't need to know about the rest of the cult of saints, because those other aspects do not matter to your story. Second, by putting something obviously medieval on center stage, you draw attention to that, and away from the areas where you are making things up as you go along.

You can use any area of medieval culture for this, but you should pick something that you find independently interesting. Once you have found an interesting fact, you have to work it into a story. This does not mean that the thing should turn up, and that you then lecture the players about it. Instead, the course of the story should depend, in some way, on the thing that you have discovered.

Some discoveries are easier to incorporate than others. For example, there was a significant tendency for people to try to steal relics from shrines, so that they could have the holiness for themselves. This is easy to incorporate, the story can just be about a relic thief, and the NPCs simply mention that such thefts are not uncommon. Similarly, features of the laws and systems of justice can easily be worked into a story centered around a court case.

It seems harder to incorporate details of medieval diet into a story, but it is not impossible. For example, the nobility ate meat with nearly every meal, as a sign of status. So, have a nobleman arrange to visit the covenant, and then have an enemy curse the covenant so that their meat stocks all turn rotten, as does any new meat they bring in. If the covenant cannot lift the curse, they will have to feed the nobleman vegetables, and he will be insulted.

For some aspects of social history, the best way to incorporate them is to create an NPC around that fact, and then have the NPC play a central role in at least one story. For example, it was common for widows to take over and continue their husbands' businesses, but many businessmen regarded such women with a degree of hostility. A widow could, therefore, seek the covenant's help.

A final option is to spend some time reading medieval legends and stories, and then to create stories based on them. Many medieval legends are available in inexpensive English translations, and some are extremely easy to convert into stories.

The main body of this chapter, and other Ars Magica products, contain a large number of such aspects of medieval history, along with explicit suggestions for how to turn them into stories. It is entirely possible to create a saga with a very medieval tone without buying any books that are not part of the Ars Magica line.

Some storyguides might worry that their players will not appreciate just how medieval some of the things they incorporate are, but this is unlikely to be a problem. If the players know that you are trying to incorporate genuine medieval history, they are likely to take it on trust that the person they have just met had real medieval counterparts, and thus when the events of the saga differ from the assumptions of generic medieval fantasy they will know that this is because of genuine historical flavor.

In addition, it is not at all uncommon for players of **Ars Magica** to start reading a bit about the Middle Ages. If your players do so, they will find that they come across things that have already featured in the saga. This will impress them with your erudition, and with the historical feel that the game has.

> ### Un-Fun History
> 
> Medieval European society was not a liberal, tolerant, or pleasant place to live. It was thoroughly misogynist and patriarchal, and democracy was generally regarded as an evil custom that would destroy society. While the period is rightly notorious for its antisemitism, it is important to remember that Judaism was the most tolerated minority religion in almost all areas covered by Ars Magica. We have not chosen the game's setting because we think it is a society that is worth emulating, or one in which we would like to live.
>
> If your troupe finds medieval society sufficiently offputting, you might want to play in a non-historical setting. On the other hand, you might like the general idea, but find particular elements unpalatable. In that case, there is no problem with glossing over or removing those features of medieval society. If you want the Church to silently tolerate surviving pagan cults in rural villages, go for it. That could have relatively little impact, without straining suspension of disbelief too much. If you want to introduce gender equality you will have to do more work, but it might be as simple as declaring that England is currently ruled by Queen Henrietta III, rather than King Henry III.
>
> On the other hand, you might enjoy playing characters who have to face the challenges created by an oppressive culture. It can be a lot of fun to play the resistance, as the popularity of a certain fictional universe including knights with shining swords proves. The Order of Hermes is deliberately designed to be anachronistic and fundamentally tolerant, so that your troupe's home covenant can be as liberal as you like, if you would have more fun with a safe home base for your characters.
>
> The material published for Ars Magica 5th Edition stays close to the facts about medieval society, but your troupe does not have to. Discuss what you would, collectively, find most fun, and develop that consensus as you play so that everyone enjoys playing in the game world, even if they would certainly not want to live there.

