## The Order of Hermes

The Order of Hermes is completely ahistorical. It has no basis whatsoever in medieval history or myth. (The magical traditions described in supplements such as *Rival Magic* and *Hedge Magic Revised Edition* are, in many cases, much more closely grounded in medieval beliefs.) Its magi are also unbelievably powerful. Why does the rest of Mythic Europe look so similar to the real world?

The real answer is "because we want to play a game about powerful wizards in medieval Europe". We therefore gloss over inconsistencies. The Code of Hermes is designed to help with suspension of disbelief on this point, and it is reasonable for players to simply assume that it successfully stops magi from interfering and changing the course of history.

Of course, there is nothing to stop you from allowing the player magi in your saga to make major changes, and indeed there is a whole supplement, *Transforming Mythic Europe*, devoted to ways in which they can do exactly that.

> ### Medieval Physics
>
> Modern science is not true of Mythic Europe. The world is a sphere, but it is stationary at the center of the universe, and the stars and planets, including the Sun, are carried around it on great spheres. The lowest of these, the Lunar Sphere, is also the limit of the power of Hermetic magic. There are differences at a more immediate level, as well. Diseases are caused by imbalances in the four humors, not by infectious micro-organisms. An object in motion tends to come to a halt unless a force makes it continue moving. Worms and flies arise spontaneously from nonliving matter. These questions are discussed in detail in *Art & Academe*, which also provides rules for medicine and the feats of experimental philosophers.

