## Pieces of History

The following sections cover the Mythic European setting, concentrating on the more historical, or historically legendary, aspects. The Realms and Bestiary chapters provide some more ideas on the purely fantastic aspects of the setting. This is not a history text. It is generalized to the point that nothing in this section was exactly true of any part of medieval Europe, and there are some places where the generalizations didn't apply at all. If you want more specific and accurate history for a particular area, there are several Tribunal books available for **Ars Magica** 5th Edition.

Further, this is not a narrative history of medieval Europe. Such things are easily available in encyclopedias, if you want to read them. However, the sorts of details that are useful for adding historical flavor to a role-playing game are not the sorts of details that are necessarily easy to find.

The information given in this section is most accurate for 1220, the 'official' date for **Ars Magica**. Using it will give your saga the feel of something happening between about 1000 and 1400, which is likely to be good enough to most troupes.

> ### Beyond Western Europe
>
> The information in this chapter is focused on Western Europe — the region ruled by Christians who recognised the Pope as the head of the Church on Earth. This is a diverse area already, but there is a lot more to Mythic Europe, and supplements have covered it in more detail. Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition includes more information on Christianity, and also on Islam and Judaism. Against the Dark and The Sundered Eagle offer information about Eastern Europe, and the Orthodox Church. The Cradle and the Crescent covers the Middle East, while Between Sand & Sea and Lands of the Nile cover North Africa, as far south as Ethiopia.

