## The Church

The Church is probably the quickest and easiest way to give medieval flavor to your saga. Christianity influenced every aspect of life in medieval Europe in a way that's hard to even imagine today, and does not feature in most fantasy settings. Almost everybody, including most Hermetic magi, is a Christian, and the overwhelming majority of Christians believe that the Church is essential to their religion.

The fact that the medieval Church is, after some changes, still around as the Roman Catholic Church means that you have to be a bit careful about offending people when using it in your sagas. Over its history the Church, both clergy and laity, has had periods when it was more true to Christian ideals, and periods when it was less so, and at all periods members of the Church have run the full gamut from sinners to saints. You will need to decide what sort of atmosphere prevails in your game, although you should keep in mind that, unless you change the game mechanics, the Church is backed by the Divine, which puts limits on how corrupt it can be. In the end, the best way to avoid giving offense is probably to portray rounded characters, rather than stereotypes at either extreme.

Much more information about the Church is available in *The Church*.

> ### Magic and Sin
>
> One question that is not decided by the core rules of **Ars Magica** is whether magic is sinful in itself. It is clear that it can be used for sinful purposes, and lends itself well to all seven deadly sins, but it can also be used for good ends. If magic is inherently sinful, casting a spell is sinful no matter what the purpose.
>
> The choice you make here affects the possible relationships between the magi and the Divine. If magic is inherently sinful, saints and angels will always encourage magi to abandon it. This creates a strong tension, and so works best if interactions with the Church are rare. It does not mean that the Divine is always hostile, as the world is full of sinners, and magic, in itself, is not necessarily a particularly serious sin.
>
> If magic is not inherently sinful, magic could have close, and good, relations with the Church, saints, and angels, with occasional concerns over sins the magicommitted using magic. In this case, giving up magic, whether temporarily or permanently, is a suitable penance in itself, giving up a sin can never be a penance, because it is required anyway.

### Doctrine

There is one God, eternal and unchanging, who created the world from nothing and sustains it from moment to moment. This God is three persons, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The Son became a human being as Jesus Christ, an event called the Incarnation, which is considered the most important event in history. Jesus Christ died on the cross, the Crucifixion, and by his death paid the penalty for all the sins committed by human beings. On the third day, he rose from the dead, in the Resurrection, and forty days later he ascended to heaven.

In the beginning, God created two humans, Adam and Eve, and placed them in the Garden of Eden. There, they were tempted by Satan and sinned, and this Original Sin tainted all of their descendants. Where once all of nature had served humankind, now it turned against them. Human beings in Original Sin can do nothing truly good, because their motives are always
tainted. Baptism washes away that stain, and fits a person to receive God's grace, which grants the ability to do good.

Good acts are those which accord with God's will, and tend to His glory, while evil acts are those which do not. The seven deadly sins are the basic roots of almost all sins committed by human beings, and the Church warns against them in particular. They are Avarice, Envy, Greed, Lust, Pride, Sloth, and Wrath. On the other side, there are the three theological virtues: Faith, Hope, and Love, and the greatest of these is Love.

All humans have an immortal soul, created at some point before birth. (In 1220, theologians still disagree about when.) After death, the soul is judged by God. Those who die perfect, having done penance for all their sins, pass directly into heaven. Those who die penitent, but not yet perfect, pass to purgatory, where they do penance after death for all those sins remaining. Those who die impenitent are condemned to hell for eternity.

> ### Game Use: Doctrine
>
> The deadly sins and theological virtues make excellent Personality Traits for medieval-themed characters. Beyond that, the issues covered by this section are rarely likely to come into play in sagas, which is probably as it should be.

### Sacraments

The life of the Church is structured around the seven sacraments. Most of these mark important stages of life, but the most important of the sacraments, the Mass, is devoted solely to man's relationship with God.

Baptism is the first of the sacraments. It involves literally or symbolically immersing someone in water, while announcing that you are baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Baptism washes away the stain of original sin, and is generally essential for salvation. Baptism can be performed by anyone, even a non-Christian, and even someone who gets the process wrong, as long as they intend to be performing a Christian baptism.

In 1220 there is theological uncertainty as to the fate of babies who die unbaptized, so the Church has many procedures in place to ensure that children are baptized as soon as possible after birth. Baptism should be performed by a priest if at all possible, but in an emergency anyone, as noted above, may do it. As a result, Jews are just about the only unbaptized people in Mythic Europe.

Confirmation marks a person's desire to be united with the Church on Earth, when he re-affirms the promises made on his behalf at baptism. This is supposed to take place at the age of reason, seven years old, but often does not. Confirmation can only be administered by a bishop or a priest specially designated as his representative, and, ideally, only after examining the candidate to ensure that he understands the Christian faith. These requirements make it hard for most medieval people to get a proper confirmation, so there are a substantial number of people who have never been confirmed. In particular, most Christian magi have not been, unless they or their parens are particularly pious.

Marriage marks the start of a family, and is another sacrament that doesn't need any Church representative. A man and a woman marry by declaring that they are married to each other, as long as they are both old enough (over twelve for a woman, fourteen for a man), neither is already married, and they are not too closely related. Marriage is for life, and cannot be dissolved. The Pope occasionally issues annulments, but these merely recognize that the marriage never actually took place.

Although no ceremony is required for marriage, the Church strongly encourages people to have a public ceremony involving a priest. Apart from anything else, this helps to head off later arguments over whether there really was a marriage. It would be extremely rare for a couple to get married with no ceremony or celebration at all.

Extreme Unction is the final sacrament, given just before death. For this reason, it draws the most ambiguous attitude of any sacrament. While it is generally believed to ease the passage to heaven, many people believe that, if you have received it, you are dead to the world in some sense, and must enter a monastery if you recover (see the Viaticarus Flaw, page 150). Similarly, people are often reluctant to receive it, as that means admitting that they are about to die, and Church doctrine is absolutely clear that it is not necessary for salvation. Extreme Unction can only be administered by a priest.

Ordination is the sacrament that turns a man into a priest, or other member of orders. There are two main classes of orders: minor orders, and major orders. The minor orders are doorkeeper, lector, exorcist, and acolyte. The major, or holy, orders, are sub-deacon, deacon, priest, and bishop. Men in holy orders may not marry, or have a living wife, whereas men in minor orders are much less restricted. All ordained men take the tonsure, which involves shaving the crown of the head, leaving a ring of hair.

Penance is the sacrament that responds to sin. Christians are required to confess all their sins to a priest, who then assigns a penance if he is convinced that the sinner has truly repented. The penance is something of some difficulty, which the penitent sinner performs to show that his repentance is genuine. It does not purchase forgiveness; that was bought by Christ's death. Instead, it allows the penitent to renew his respect for God in a concrete way. Common penances involve saying a certain number of prayers or psalms, giving charity or helping the poor in some other way, or going on a pilgrimage to a shrine, at a distance depending on the severity of the sin.

Priests are not allowed to mention what they hear in confession to anyone, not even their superiors in the Church. The contents of confession are between the priest, the penitent, and God.

In the Mass, God Himself becomes manifest in bread and wine, which is shared with the congregation. In most of Europe, the laity now only receive the bread, but in a few places the custom of receiving both bread and wine persists. The bread becomes the body of Christ, known as the Host, and the wine becomes His Blood, so that the Mass symbolizes the sacrifice of Christ for the salvation of all believers, and the participation of all believers in that sacrifice.

Actually receiving the bread is known as taking communion, and a person must confess and do penance before doing so. (For large penances, a sincere intent to complete it suffices.) As a result, most people only take communion once a year, at Easter, although they attend the service most weeks.

Because the consecrated bread and wine are extremely holy, they must be consumed completely during the service, with great care taken not to spill or drop any.

> #### Hermetic Magic and the Sacraments
>
> Magi can observe the supernatural effects of the Sacraments, and it is common knowledge within the Order that the Sacraments are supernatural Divine powers. For example, a baptismal name cannot be used as a Sympathetic Connection to aid Penetration (unlike a birth name), Mass does indeed change simple bread and wine into something Divine, and bodies that have received Extreme Unction cannot be affected by magic for three days.
>
> Due to this overwhelming evidence of the Divine, most magi believe in the existence of God, and many would describe themselves as Christians. However, even a magus who identifies himself as Christian would almost certainly be considered by the Church to have a heretical view of the world, colored as it will be by the magus' knowledge of the supernatural.


#### Game Use: Sacraments

The sacraments are as central a part of modern Catholicism, and many other contemporary varieties of Christianity, as they were of the medieval Church. Thus, a certain degree of care should be taken to avoid offending people. That said, they are a central part of medieval life, and thus make good stories.

A number of covenfolk decide that they want to be confirmed, living at the covenant, they have previously had no opportunity. This means taking them to the bishop, and getting them through the catechism without painting the covenant as a hive of heretics.

A moderately pious magus decides to confess and take communion after several lapsed years. The (knowledgeable) confessor assigns a pilgrimage to a distant shrine, without using magic at all, as a penance.

The covenfolk find out that Hermetic magic, or, indeed, any other magic, is completely incapable of affecting the Host in any way. They form a fraternity devoted to honoring the Host as God's presence on Earth. (In 1220, this is unusual, but not heretical. Later, it becomes common and absolutely orthodox.)

Someone born at the covenant becomes deeply pious, but some power seems to be driving him out of churches, and he has ominous warning dreams in which he is overwhelmed by great waves. It turns out that he was never baptized, and the dreams are to encourage him to do so.

The unbaptized pious character dies without working out the problem. After his death, a close friend has visions revealing that he is damned to hell, and why, warning them to ensure that everyone is baptized. This could launch a quest for a way to baptize the character posthumously. (This has happened before. At the earnest request of Pope Gregory the Great, later a saint, God allowed the Roman Emperor Trajan to be saved after death. But God did warn the Pope not to ask such things again.)

### Saints

Saints are people who served God faithfully when alive, and have now died and joined the Church Triumphant in heaven. (Living Christians are often called the Church Militant, as they must still fight temptation and the wiles of the devil.) Strictly speaking, angels are not saints, as they are not and never were human, but the archangels Michael and Gabriel are often treated as saints.

The importance of saints for living Christians is that they are willing to intercede with God on behalf of the living, and while they have no power of their own, God is willing to listen to them. The most important saint, by far, is the Virgin Mary, the mother of God, who is believed to have particularly strong influence. After her come the twelve Apostles, Christ's closest followers during His ministry on Earth, and particularly St Peter, the first Bishop of Rome and the rock on which the Church was built. St Paul, called the Apostle to the Gentiles, is of almost equal importance. There are many other saints, including the saints of the Old Testament, such as Abraham, Moses, and David, martyrs, who were killed for their faith, and witnesses, who bore witness to God's message in particularly impressive ways.

The Church is, in 1220, moving towards an official list of recognized saints, although the process is not yet complete. Further, the Church recognizes that there are many saints in heaven who are not on the Church's list. The list includes only those saints that the Church is sure about, which means that they lived a clearly holy life, and that miracles have been attributed to their intercession after death.

Saints often take an interest in a particular area of life or institution, reflecting their interests when they were alive, and petitions addressed to the saint tend to be more effective in that area. Similarly, saints are particularly attentive to their relics, physical objects that were closely associated with the saint in life, most often bodies or body parts. The faithful often make long pilgrimages to pray at a shrine containing the relics of a particularly important or appropriate saint.

This, however, moves into tricky territory. Strictly speaking, no-one worships saints, and the requests for intercession addressed to them are to be distinguished from the prayers offered directly to God. In practice, most people are rather fuzzy on the difference, and the Church doesn't mind, as long as the faithful accept that the Church's doctrine, which they don't fully understand, is correct. God does not require all His children to be expert theologians.

#### Game Use: Saints

Saints are an excellent medium for divine intervention in a saga. First, most medieval stories of divine activity involve a saint as mediator, so this choice keeps medieval flavor. Further, there are many saints, some quite local and obscure, and they all have different personalities. Some are quite abrasive, particularly when dealing with people opposed to God's work. Thus, you can make up a local saint with a personality appropriate to the story you want to tell.

The attitude of saints to the covenant and the magi depends on whether you decide that magic is inherently sinful. It need not be; magic is opposed by both Divine and Infernal auras, after all. If magic is inherently sinful, any saint will want the magi to abandon it. If it is not, saints will merely urge the magi to use their power in the service of God. Either way, there are many specific options for using saints.

A saint takes an interest in the covenant, and starts looking after it. He or she appears in the dreams of covenfolk offering warnings, and occasionally manifests in the covenant to warn against sin or advise on God's will. On the one hand, this is a very useful ally. On the other, the magi will want to avoid a Dominion aura springing up within the covenant.

The covenant comes into conflict, over land or some other resource, with a monastery that has a particularly protective patron saint. They find that their magic is opposed by the power of the Divine, forcing them to find another resolution.

Members of the covenant become particularly devoted to a saint with a shrine some distance away, and pilgrimages become a feature of normal life. Even the magi might choose to venerate this saint.

The covenant discovers an important relic in the course of an adventure. Keeping it at the covenant would guarantee a stream of pilgrims and an eventual Dominion aura, but giving it away would make a firm ally of the recipient — and possibly enemies of the other groups who wanted it.

### Structures

The head of the Church on Earth is the Pope, the Bishop of Rome, who is the Vicar of Christ. (A vicar is someone who performs a role on behalf of someone else.) Over the last century popes have been campaigning to increase the actual authority of their office, and the campaign is working. Nevertheless, lower-ranked churchmen have a great deal of independence. In theory, anyone who disagrees with a lesser bishop's decision can appeal to the pope, but in practice this is so expensive and difficult that only the most serious problems, involving kings and major lords, or powerful monasteries, actually make it there.

There are many other bishops across Europe, all based in a city, or at least somewhere that was as close to a city as the area had when the bishopric was founded. The church where the bishop has his seat is known as the cathedral church, from the Latin term for the literal, physical chair, and the area around is called the diocese. The bishop's responsibilities start with ensuring that the clergy, monks, and nuns are all doing their jobs and living lives appropriate to their station, but also extend, in theory, to the spiritual well-being of every human being in the area. In particular, bishops often find themselves protecting the Jews of a town from angry, and antisemitic, mobs.

A bishop carries out his duties primarily by means of visitations. In these, he visits a priest or monastery, and carries out investigations to ensure that all is in order. The enthusiasm that bishops bring to these duties varies widely, but very few will overlook persistent reports of major abuses.

Within the diocese, Europe is divided up into parishes. Each parish has a church, the parish church, and a priest, the parish priest, assigned to look after the spiritual well-being of all those within, a position called 'having cure of souls'. Everyone has their own parish, and is supposed to confess only to their parish priest, although exceptions are made for travelers and extreme circumstances. In some parishes, the priest with primary responsibility, called the rector, actually performs the duties. In others, he pays another priest, called the curate, to do the actual work for him.

#### Game Use: Structures

All covenants are in a parish, even if they want nothing to do with the Church. Thus, the parish priest could come calling at any time, seeking out the lost sheep of his flock.

A covenant with a cozy relationship with the parish priest hears that the bishop is coming on a visitation. Precisely how this plays out depends on the covenant and bishop, but it needs some response. The covenant wants to get itself recognized as a separate parish, where the magi can choose the parish priest. This is not unreasonable; most covenants are large enough and rich enough to justify this. But neither is it a foregone conclusion, as the characters will have to negotiate a great deal of Church politics.

### Canon Law

The Church has its own law, canon law, which is based on the old Roman law but covers all aspects of Church life. It also covers a number of areas that might not seem obviously related to the Church: marriage, inheritance, and commerce, most notably.

All canon law cases must, in theory, be heard by the bishop of the appropriate diocese. In 1220, formal structures to delegate this authority to full-time judges are being established, but the process is far from complete, and many cases are still judged by the bishop in person, or by a representative chosen for that particular case.

Heresy is a growing concern of the church courts. Most heretics are encouraged to accept the teachings of the Church by their parish priests, and the vast majority, being heretical through ignorance rather than conviction, do so. The few who reach court generally recant, returning to the Church, if they are convicted, and this always ends the case. Those who persist in their heresy may, finally, be handed over to the secular authorities for execution, but the Church is reluctant to do this as it all but ensures someone's damnation. However, if the alternative is a serious risk of damnation for more people, misled by the heretic, they feel they have no choice.

Canon law on commerce makes it illegal to lend money at interest, to buy things and sell them at a profit unless you have transported them a long distance, and to buy large stocks of something when it is cheap, to sell when it is expensive. Canon law only covers Christians, so these activities are all legal for Jews, which has made a few Jews extremely wealthy, while inflaming the prejudices of those who owe them money.

#### Game Use: Canon Law

The magi are accused of heresy, and forced to defend themselves in court.

The magi use magic to get around some of the canon law rules on commerce, making a large amount of money, but stirring up opposition from mundane merchants, who appeal to the bishop.

A friendly bishop is faced with a case of heresy where the heretics appear to have diabolical powers. Knowing his limits, he appoints one of the magi as his judgedelegate, sending along a learned clerk to help out. The magus has strict instructions to save as many heretics as possible.

### Resources

The Church, as an institution, has extensive resources. The most basic of these is the tithe; the Church is entitled to one tenth of everything of which God gives the increase; essentially, all agricultural products. This is a substantial amount, and the Church and its agents are quite enthusiastic about gathering it. Failing to pay the tithe is a serious sin, for which heavy penances are routinely assigned.

In addition, the Church owns a good deal of property, from which it draws income just as any other mundane lord. The result of this is that many high-ranking clerics are personally very wealthy, a situation that some people, including some lower-ranking clerics, find incompatible with the Church's mission.

In theory, one third of the tithe is supposed to be used to support the poor. In practice, much less than this is devoted to charity, but the Church is still effectively the only source of support for the most vulnerable members of society.

#### Game Use: Resources

Magi still have to pay the tithe. God gives the increase on vis sources. Most priests won't care, but what if the local priest does?

A covenant might be located so that the nearest major lord is a bishop or monastery, rather than a mundane noble. Alternatively, the mundane noble the covenant had good relations with might die without an heir, leave his lands to the Church, and give the covenant a new, powerful neighbor to handle.

### Monasteries

Monasteries, and the female equivalent, convents, are a vital part of the Mythic European landscape. Ranging in size from tiny establishments with a handful of members to mighty castles with dozens of monks and influence covering thousands of miles, they shape the Church in many ways.

The members of monasteries are referred to as 'regular clergy', because they are bound by a rule (regulus), as opposed to the 'secular clergy', who live in the world (seculum). The details of the monastic rule vary from one tradition to another, but the basics are the same.

All monks and nuns take vows of poverty, chastity, stability, and obedience. The vow of poverty means that they have no personal possessions, that of chastity that they have no sexual relations, that of stability that they remain at one monastery, and that of obedience that they do whatever the head of their house commands.

The monastic day is structured around the seven monastic offices, church services that take place spread throughout the day. In some traditions, notably the Cluniac, these services have become so elaborate that there is little time to do anything else other than eat and sleep. In others, such as the Cistercian, they are still balanced with physical or mental labor of some sort.

Still, the main service that the monasteries provide is their prayers. Monks have given up the world to better serve God, and so their prayers are regarded as particularly effective. Many relics are held at monasteries, encouraging pilgrimages. As an extension of this, most monasteries are required to offer hospitality to travelers, at no charge, although visitors are expected to make a donation in line with their means.

Giving to monasteries is particularly well-regarded in Europe, and so many of them have become rich and powerful. Of particular note in this respect is the abbey of Cluny, in France, which heads the Cluniac Order, a group of monasteries spread over the whole of Europe. Thus, while the monks are, technically, poor, many have access to and control of vast resources.

These resources give the monks time to devote to scholarship and art, and thus monasteries are often centers of high culture. In recent years towns and cities have been starting to take over this role, but many monasteries still have proud traditions of study or craftsmanship.

In the early years of the thirteenth century a new type of regular clergy makes its appearance. These are the mendicant friars, 'begging brothers', who take vows of poverty, chastity, and obedience, and travel the world preaching and serving God. As yet the two major orders, Franciscan and Dominican, are still new, but they are growing in popularity extremely rapidly.

#### Game Use: Monasteries

While monks make poor player characters, since they are supposed to stay in their monasteries, friars are an excellent choice. They are supposed to wander around, and thus have a perfect excuse for ending up at the covenant.

Monasteries are a good place for traveling magi to stay. Their duty of hospitality means that they will usually not simply turn away even those with the Blatant Gift.

Monastic scholars make good correspondents for magi, and good potential allies.

### Miracles

God intervenes in the world, and his interventions take the form of miracles. Miracles are not common events, but neither are they incredibly rare. Almost everyone in Mythic Europe knows someone who has witnessed or benefited from a miracle, and more people have witnessed miracles than have witnessed Hermetic magic.

By far the most common kind of miracle is a healing miracle, including the raising of the dead. The dead are normally raised within a week or so of dying, although God is capable of raising those who have been dead for longer if he so wishes. Injuries, diseases, and inherited afflictions are also cleansed by miracles.

The next most common miracle is a punishment miracle, inflicting some sort of infirmity on a person who has been particularly disrespectful to God or his agents. These punishments are a call to repentance, and thus while they are debilitating, they are very rarely fatal.

Finally, there is a vast range of miscellaneous miracles, ranging from freeing those unjustly imprisoned to saving a talking bird from a hawk, via sending an angel to fight on a pious knight's behalf at a tournament.

Most healing miracles happen at a shrine holding relics, but it isn't a large majority. The guardians of such shrines, often monks, can expect to see dozens of miracles in a typical year, and a pilgrim to such a shrine has a very good chance of witnessing one.

God grants miracles as He wishes, and His purposes are sometimes inscrutable. However, a miracle is more likely to be granted if it is sincerely requested by a pious person, if the cause of the affliction was entirely innocent, and if an appropriate saint adds his prayers to those of the living Christian (or Jew, or Muslim). Still, God is perfectly free, and sometimes grants miracles to help people who seem less than pious.

#### Game Use: Miracles

Miracles are an excellent way to emphasize the Myth in Mythic Europe, and storyguides should not be afraid to use them that way. They are also, however, the ultimate plot device, as they can do anything, no matter what. Thus, storyguides should use them in moderation, to avoid leaving the players feeling that they have nothing to do.

Also, setting the frequency of miracles is an important part of deciding just how Mythic your Mythic Europe is. The frequency described in the main text is a default level, but you could choose to make miracles very rare, maybe one per year at major shrines, or very common, so that every parish sees a handful of miracles within the parish every year.

A grog killed in battle with a dragon is raised from the dead at the prayers of his wife and five small children. He comes back with a chilling tale of purgatory, and of having seen a recently-deceased magus burning in hell. He starts an immediate campaign to bring the covenant back to righteousness.

A magus confronting some bandits is suddenly deprived of his magical power. Nevertheless, his grogs easily defeat the attackers, and the magus is unharmed. His power returns afterwards; what lesson is God trying to teach him?

A character with a serious problem finds that the magi cannot help, as it is part of her Essential Nature. Instead, she seeks a miracle.

