## The Nobility

The Church is a truly European organization, with a common structure and common beliefs. The nobility are a group of individual lords, with many common interests and links between them. Although there is a great deal of shared culture among the nobility, there is less than there is among the clergy, so this section is even more prone to over-generalization than the last. More details about the nobility in general can be found in *Lords of Men*, while the Tribunal books provide information about the noble culture of particular regions.

### Feudalism

Most of Europe is ruled through the feudal system. This system is tied together by oaths of fealty, in which one person swears to provide a certain sort of service for another in return for being given control of an area of land. The sort of service required is overwhelmingly military; in its simplest form, the person swearing (the vassal) promises to serve his lord in battle for a certain number of days every year. If the area of land (called a fief) is large, the vassal may be required to provide the services of more than one warrior. In that case, it is very common to grant parts of your fief as fiefs to other warriors, on condition that they serve you, so that you can meet your obligations to your lord.

In outline, the system sounds like a simple pyramid, with the king at the top, and lords of progressively smaller fiefs below. However, things are far more complex than that. First, lords at most levels have direct vassals with fiefs of wildly differing sizes. A king might have one direct vassal who controls an area covering several towns and dozens of villages, while another controls half of a single village. Further, vassals can swear fealty to several different lords, as long as they can meet all the obligations. At the extreme, the king of England is answerable to no-one for England itself, but has sworn fealty to the king of France for his possessions in mainland Europe. It is not at all uncommon for a lord to be a direct vassal of a king for some land, but to be a vassal of a vassal for others. It is even possible for two people to be each other's vassals, for different fiefs, but that is rare to the point of being unheard-of.

Within his fief, a lord is responsible for some aspects of law and order. The extent of his responsibility varies depending on the lord and the customs of the country, but in general petty crime is under the jurisdiction of the local lord, and the death penalty can only be imposed by the king or some other extremely powerful nobles.

All the land in the fief is under the control of the lord. Some of it he farms himself (the demesne), the rest he rents out to peasants in return for a share of their crop and some of their labor on his own lands. The nobility are thus very close to the agricultural cycle, although the more land a noble has, the more he is insulated by layers of vassals and staff.

#### Game Use: Feudalism

Because magi are required by the Code to avoid swearing fealty to any mundane lord, feudalism is more likely to be a part of the background of the saga, rather than an immediate source of story seeds. Still, the complex webs of loyalty it creates are ideal breeding grounds for stories.

### Travel

Medieval nobles travel a lot, for a variety of reasons. First, wars seldom take place within a noble's fief, so in order to fulfill his obligation to fight, he must travel. Second, lords often summon their vassals to councils or consultations, so the vassal must travel to wherever his lord is. Sometimes, the summons comes from the king, gathering many nobles in one place for a grand council. Third, lords are Christians like anyone else, and they actually have the resources to go on pilgrimages. As a result, they often do.

Lords with scattered fiefs normally travel between those fiefs over the course of the year. This is because it is easier to transport the noble's household between two places than to transport enough food and drink to satisfy dozens of people for several weeks. As a result, a powerful noble is rarely in one place for very long, and when he does arrive it makes an enormous difference to local society.

Lords also visit their vassals. In part this is to reinforce the bonds of loyalty, and to make sure that the vassal is treating the land well. It also serves as a way to weaken vassals who are becoming threatening, because they are required to support their lord and his entourage, an expensive undertaking.

Finally, nobles simply enjoy visiting one another. Personal visits are the best way to stay in touch with friends and relatives, and the chance to visit new people helps to make life more interesting.

#### Game Use: Travel

Travel, obviously, allows the storyguide to bring nobles into the saga for a single session, or take them out for a period of time, if so desired.

The local lord, who is on excellent terms with the covenant, is expecting a visit from his lord. He asks the covenant for help in defraying the expenses, and in making sure that the visitor is impressed.

The local lord is powerful, and only visits that fief every couple of years. When he does come, however, the magi have to tread very carefully; he doesn't know the truth about the covenant, and they would prefer to keep it that way.

The local lord, who is somewhat hostile, is called away to a great council, which drags on. His wife, left behind, struggles with a problem facing the fief, and calls on the magi for help. If they succeed, she becomes more friendly, but her husband's attitude does not necessarily change.

### Entertainments

The nobility of Mythic Europe have a significant amount of leisure time, particularly when there isn't a war on. As a group of warriors, their favored pastimes tend to be somewhat warlike. The most extreme example of this is the tournament. This is basically an organized battle, where the participants try not to kill each other. The rules do allow the winners to claim the armor and weapons of the losers, so a skilled knight can make a good living on the tournament circuit. Many kings are suspicious of tournaments, and most churchmen believe them to be inherently sinful.

Tournaments, while popular, are difficult and expensive to organize, and occasionally banned by Church and lay authorities. Another extremely popular noble pastime, which does not suffer from these problems, is the hunt. Almost any animal can be hunted, although the deer is probably the most popular quarry, and while the standard hunt involved hunters on horseback, hunting with falcons is also popular, and considered suitable for women as the human hunters do not have to ride about vigorously. Some nobles even hunt magical creatures, although that is recognized to be extremely dangerous.

Large areas of some countries, notably England, are set aside as hunting ranges for the nobility. Noone else is allowed to hunt the animals therein, or to cultivate the land. Peasants in the surrounding areas are generally allowed some activities within these preserves, but they are very limited, to such things as foraging pigs and gathering acorns.

Nobles also enjoy stories of noble activities, and as more of the nobility become literate, manuscripts of romances and legends are increasing in popularity. Even those members of the nobility who cannot read can have the books read to them. Entertainers, including minstrels, acrobats, and trained animals, are also popular. Fights between various animals, such as between two cocks, or between a bear and several dogs, are also popular.

#### Game Use: Entertainments

While hunting a magical beast, a noble party is badly injured, and stumbles into the covenant, seeking shelter and assistance.

A group of nobles target an intelligent magical beast that is allied with the covenant. The beast asks for help.

A shapeshifter who can turn into a bear is getting into noble households as a 'trained bear'. The bear is extremely impressive, but the shapeshifter has deeper, more devious plans.

### Inheritance

Most noble power in Mythic Europe is inherited by the son from the father. This is, however, far from a universal rule, and squabbles over the succession are quite common, particularly when a major lordship (also called an honor) is at stake. In addition, younger sons present a significant problem. If the honor is split between all the sons, the family is weakened. On the other hand, giving the younger sons nothing stores up political trouble, even if the father doesn't care at all about their feelings. Thus, in one sense families would like exactly one son.

That, however, is very risky, because people die unexpectedly. Thus, noble families tend to try for a large number of children, in the hope of getting at least one male heir. Daughters can be married to other nobles, thus building alliances, but younger sons must be found a place in the world. The Church is one obvious destination for them, as is service to a more powerful lord. The most powerful lords, such as kings, often create honors for their younger sons from holdings that have reverted to the king after treason, or when a line fails to produce heirs.

Women only inherit if they have no brothers, and they are expected to marry someone who can be the 'real' lord of the area. Almost the only way for a woman to get real power is for her to be the widow of a lord who had no heirs, as in that case the lands normally stay with her until her death, before reverting to the overlord.

#### Game Use: Inheritance

A magus was the fifth son of a powerful noble. Now his four older brothers have died, and he is expected to become the new lord. The Order forbids it, but if he doesn't take the role, war threatens.

A lord with no heirs comes to the magi for help in siring a son. This isn't very difficult for magi with the appropriate Arts, but the consequences may be profound.

A lord with no male heirs raised his youngest daughter as a boy, to provide an heir within his family. He died when she was very young, but the family servants kept up the pretense, so that the girl is now the lord of the honor. She is, however, expected to marry a woman. She seeks help from the magi.

### Mythic Options

This section covers options for increasing the amount of magic in the nobility. If you want to keep medieval society fairly mundane, you shouldn't use any of them. If, on the other hand, you want magic to be everywhere, you might use all of them.

Medieval legends often tell of faerie nobles, living in a very similar manner to human nobles but with strange features, such as being dressed entirely in green and surviving having their head cut off. In Mythic Europe, such nobles might swear fealty to the king and be part of the normal feudal structure.

While Hermetic magi are prohibited from serving mundane nobles, lesser magicians are not. A noble line where a useful supernatural ability is passed from generation to generation might hold land on condition that they serve the king with that ability, and if the person who inherits the ability is female, she inherits in her own right.

A line of intelligent, magical horses might be the real rulers of a fief. While there is a nominal human lord, who rides the current true ruler, the horses are the power behind the throne. (This could also apply to magical hunting dogs, or magical hawks. Magical pigs should only run a fief if you want a slightly silly location.)

A powerful faerie or magical creature might accept the fealty of human lords, and refuse to swear fealty to any mere human being. This option effectively creates a new kingdom in Europe, and a kingdom where the provisions of the Code are less than perfectly clear. If an area is ruled by a dragon, is it mundane?

A line of wise and successful lords might owe their success to an enchanted item of some sort. The item might be able to support complete incompetents or, more likely, give a competent lord a significant edge in war and politics, so that even a less talented heir can get by. The importance of the item may or may not be public knowledge. The item might be Hermetic, from another magical source, or faerie in origin. Relics and infernal artifacts can play much the same role, but they have slightly different implications.

An evil lord might really have sold his soul to the devil, and thus have lots of infernal powers to help him oppress the peasants.

