## Towns and Trade

If the generalizations about the nobility had exceptions, generalizations about towns are almost nothing but exceptions. A town is a settlement where a significant proportion of the population (a third and up, say) does not make its living directly from agriculture. On this definition, towns range from villages with a few hundred inhabitants to the great metropolis of Constantinople, with tens of thousands at the very least (well, before it was sacked, at least). Obviously, a town of a few hundred people in Ireland bears little resemblance to Constantinople. More detail about towns and trade is provided in *City & Guild*.

Nevertheless, these points can be used to create towns that feel medieval, even if they don't fit exactly into any actual part of medieval Europe.

### Markets and Fairs

Markets are the stage before a town, and often the nucleus around which new towns grow. A market is a formally established place and time for trading locally produced goods. Most gather once per week, although there are exceptions, and draw people from an area about twelve miles across. This allows people to walk to market, do their business, and walk home, all in a single day.

There may be rules about who is allowed to buy and sell what at the market. For example, peasants may be required to sell their grain to merchants resident in the town, and only those merchants are allowed to sell grain to anyone else. There are often fees for setting up stalls at the market, and the lord controlling the market can collect fines at a market court.

The bulk of trade at all markets is agricultural produce, but other goods, including those brought some distance, are also available. Truly exotic goods, however, cannot be found here, the selection is limited to simple tools, clothes, home utensils, and the like. The main customers are peasants, so the offerings are tailored to them.

Because large numbers of people gather at them, markets are also centers for news, entertainment, and people seeking employment, or just wanting to meet new people. Most peasants travel to market many times per year, so they are not as cut off from news of the wider world as modern players might think. It takes time for news to travel, but if it is interesting, travel it does.

Fairs are, essentially, temporary towns. They normally happen once per year, and last for several days. The smallest draw from a large region (that's what makes them more than markets), and the largest, in the Champagne region of France, draw from the whole of Europe. In most ways, a fair is a really big market, but almost anything can be bought there. The customers include the nobility and high churchmen, so luxury goods are sold.

By the early thirteenth century the greatest days of the fairs are over, as towns begin to take over their role, but they still have a great deal of life left in them.

#### Game Use: Markets and Pairs

Sending the grogs to market makes an excellent story that need not involve any magi.

Markets can provide substantial income, so a covenant might want to establish one under its control. A market controlled by the magi is also a good way to slowly put magically created goods into circulation, without raising too many suspicions. However, markets bring visitors, who might be over curious, and attract hostility from other local markets, that don't like the competition.

An ambitious covenant might even try to sponsor a fair, but that just makes the potential problems even larger.

Magi needing exotic pieces of laboratory equipment, or materials from distant lands, travel to a fair to find them.

### Towns

Most medieval towns cover a fairly small area of land, and many are walled. Within the walls buildings can have as many as four stories, and streets are very narrow. Rubbish is thrown into the streets, including the rubbish from slaughterhouses, and feral animals feed off it. Sewage may also be thrown into the streets, or into the river.

As a result the air in towns is very bad, and often unbalances the humors of those living there. People die significantly younger in towns than they do in the countryside, and most towns only maintain their population through immigration from the land around.

Despite the dangers and unpleasantness of living in a town, people immigrate because there are jobs there. If a peasant family grows too large for its land to support, daughters are often sent to work as domestic servants. Similarly, peasants with no land might head to the towns to work as laborers, or even find a trade.

People visit the town even more often, because the larger towns are becoming, in effect, permanent fairs where the wealthy can buy almost anything they want. In most areas of Mythic Europe there are few adult peasants who haven't visited a town at least once.

In most areas, towns stand a little outside the feudal system. They are often run by councils of the leading merchants, or other wealthy citizens, rather than by a warrior noble, and sometimes they may be entirely independent, and lords of a significant area of the countryside. In these cases, people may flee to the town to escape harsh lords, or to flee justice. Towns are the only places with a crowd large enough to lose yourself in.

#### Game Use: Towns

Clever use of magic can offset the penalties of the bad air of towns, and small magical auras, or even regiones, might persist, allowing a covenant to be sited there.

Most of the story ideas for markets and fairs also apply to towns.

In some countries, towns have a great deal of discretion to run their own affairs, as long as they pay a certain amount of tax. Thus, a covenant might try to be legally recognized as a town. Many covenants are certainly large enough.

### Mythic Options

A faerie town is just as possible as a faerie lord, and would probably be a very popular place for magi to go shopping. It might also be fully integrated into the local economy, and even have some human immigrants.

People with supernatural abilities could set up as traders in a town, as well as in service to a lord. This option needs handling with considerable care, however, as towns with Magic Shops feel very much like generic fantasy.

A town might be alive as a whole, and aligned to any realm. People living there might be real, or merely part of the town. Such a town might even be able to move.

