## Peasants

Peasants make up 90% of medieval society. While they don't really eat mud, they don't, for the most part, eat very well, and famine is a recurrent feature of society.

Peasants make their living from the land or the sea, whether from arable crops, livestock, or fishing. Their legal rights vary a great deal from region to region, from theoretically the same as a nobleman, to almost no rights at all. In all areas, they are almost powerless, and thus often cannot claim those rights they have.

Most peasant families are very nearly selfsufficient, growing their own food, maintaining their own homes, and mending their own clothes and furniture. However, they are as prone to curiosity as any other human being, and all have been to market, the overwhelming majority to town, and most on a pilgrimage to a local shrine at least. While they are all illiterate and without formal education, they are neither stupid nor completely uninformed, on the whole.

In Mythic Europe, the supernatural is a part of the lives of most peasants. Minor magical creatures and faeries visit villages, or live in the crop fields, or watch over the pigs foraging in the local woods. A magical pool might make a virgin beautiful and irresistible if he or she bathes in it (local stories say it might work twice, but no-one has ever been able to try), a tree might grow enchanted apples that taste, and intoxicate, like the finest cider, or the leader of the local wolves might negotiate an agreement with the villagers every year, specifying how many sheep the pack will take. Very few villages are without any touch of the supernatural in the surrounding area, but most such touches have little effect on daily life.

