## Public Power for Women

Relatively few women hold public power in Mythic Europe. The elaboration of their roles below should not discourage players from selecting exceptional women as their characters. The constraints, and ways to avoid them, listed here are suggested as material for storytelling, not as proscriptions. Troupes should consider carefully how the fun of a historically accurate setting intersects with the fun of playing a character who uses her wits to challenge social conventions. The Paid Rights Virtue (page 100) is a gamemechanical way to acknowledge that an exceptional woman is just that: exceptional.

Players, who are likely most familiar with the English system, should be aware that women have fewer rights in England than in most other parts of Mythic Europe. This is, in part, an effect of the Conquest. The military character of the Norman nobility has not entirely given way to hereditary aristocracy. In areas where landholding is seen as a method of supporting warriors, women have fewer rights, while in those areas where landholding is seen as method of generating money to sustain an army, women have greater rights.

### Dressing As A Man

This is the simplest way to ignore social conventions concerning women. There are many folkloric examples of women dressing as men and doing almost anything men do. War or pilgrimage, for example, are easier when pretending to be male. This may become a Dark Secret (page 124), and may also qualify the character for Gender Nonconforming (page 131).

Dressing as a man is not usually a successful strategy for the extended term: marriage and fathering children are difficult, if surmountable, obstacles. A woman who dresses as a man and engages in warfare is, however, likely to die young, as most men do, so this may not be a concern.

### Holding Land

Women can gain control of land in six ways: during absence, through inheritance, via political success, through conquest, in a widow's portion, or as a steward.

#### Absence

Landholding is intimately tied, in most of Mythic Europe, to providing military service. The male head of most families must be available to fight in campaigns, some of which last for months, or in civil wars, which can sputter along for years. Many nobles leave their wives as their deputies. The value of an educated wife to the military preparedness of her husband has overcome many of the objections concerning the education of women.

Women raised for this task always have Leadership and Profession: Steward scores. They also rapidly develop Ability scores that their husbands have due to the peculiarities of their holdings, allowing them to oversee work, or at least select competent overseers. In this role of deputy the woman has the right to spend the income of the husband's territory, and may command his vassals in many matters, including war.

The role that women play in the command of troops varies between the societies of Europe. It is further influenced by the personalities, Reputations and resources of the lady and her vassals. Women rarely lead troops into battle, but there are many references to noble women holding castles against sieges. During a siege the lady may command troops directly, or may direct their command through a skilled lieutenant.

Many noblewomen maintain networks of agents completely separate from the households of their husbands. A wife may take over her husband's network if he dies or is on campaign. This role, as correspondent and diplomat, is expected of the wives of nobility. A woman who does not socialize is considered a poor supporter of her husband's efforts.

#### Inheritance

Lands inherited by women are a recognized feature of feudal life in most kingdoms. In most areas land goes to sons before daughters, but daughters are given preference over more distant male relations, like uncles and cousins. Some areas grant all of the land to the eldest son, and the daughter receives it intact if there are no sons. In others, when a paternal line extinguishes in this way, the land is divided between all of the remaining sisters, or their husbands. In a few areas, women are permitted to inherit directly, either because the land of a family is divided between all of the siblings not already members of the church, or because the lord is permitted to nominate his heirs and so may choose his daughters.

A woman who rules a fief by inheritance usually retains legal authority in it during her marriage. With the exception of England, where the wife's rights become the husband's, there are many examples of women who married another noble, yet continued to hold court, issue charters, and command vassals. In Castile there is at least one example of an odd midpoint, where the bride continued to rule in her own land, with the exception of her dowry, which was transferred to her husband. At the death of the heiress, her lands may be kept by her eldest son, if the area practices primogeniture. In areas where the lands of the parents are divided, the separate character of the wife's lands make them an obvious domain for one of her sons

Land that a father has added to his ancestral territories may be made available as dowry. Dowries are used, in much of Europe, as a sort of inheritance before the death of the father.

#### Political Success

It is rare for anyone, male or female, to be granted land for purely political favors, but it occasionally occurs as a result of stories. A common way for a woman to be granted land is to become the mistress of a powerful nobleman and bear his child. If the woman has suitable abilities, she may be made the child's guardian until he is of age to join his father's household.

#### Conquest

Some women claim land through invasion, allowing their retinue of knights to settle conquered areas as vassals. This requires loyal retainers and either a friendly monarch or a formidable reputation, as a mercenary captain or disloyal male vassal might try to swear fealty for the land himself. Such women rarely enter combat themselves, but since they are the leaders of their armies, it would be insubordinate to gainsay them if they wished it.

#### Widow's Portion and Stewardship

In most areas a widow is permitted to retain the use of a portion of her husband's lands for her own use after his death. As a rule of thumb, assume a widow can keep the profit, not income, of a third of her husband's land until she remarries. If the woman was already landed at marriage, and has no adult sons, then she is likely to have complete ownership of her lands returned to her. Widows are extremely common in Mythic Europe.

In some areas, like France, Castile and parts of the Holy Roman Empire, a widow may act as her son's guardian. This allows her to administer land on his behalf until he is an adult. Stewardship of lands may need to be purchased from the dead husband's overlord. In many areas the lord has the right to select the stewards for the heirs of vassals, and he may even arrange the marriage of the widow. By convention, no woman may be given by her lord in marriage a third time.

### Nuns

A third avenue for power, and one much enjoyed by the younger daughters of some lords, is the church. The role of nunneries is discussed in greater detail in the supplements *Realms of Power: The Divine Revised Edition* and *The Church*. Nuns are considered wards of the bishop, and brides of Christ. They cannot usually be forced to marry and are not answerable to their fathers or other local lords. Nuns hold a great deal of land in Mythic Europe, and their estates are not divided by inheritance.

Young women may take temporary vows which allow them to retreat into the life of a nun while events unfold in the secular world. It is possible for a sufficiently influential nobleman to force a woman to leave the nunnery and marry, but this is rare. It is common for the female relatives of a man who has lost a war to retreat into the nunneries, so that they are not at the mercy of the victors.

### Women As Warriors

In most areas there are folktales about particular women who, at some past time, acted in the role of knight. How characters react to contemporary women who attempt the same course varies by culture and by the status of the particular woman. In the Order of Hermes, the philosophy of Plato, coupled with the scarcity of The Gift, has led to a position of equity. Plato advocated the training of women for all the duties of the state including administration and warfare. Very few women seek military success, but enough do for the role to be accepted, to some degree, in most areas. The following examples may guide the generation of background for female nobles who seek military roles.

#### Dressing As A Man: Margaret of Beverley

Margaret of Beverley was born in the Holy Land: her parents were English pilgrims who commenced their journey while her mother was pregnant. After reaching adulthood and seeing to the education of her younger brother, Margaret decided to revisit Jerusalem. Through terrible luck, she was present when Jerusalem fell to Saladin in 1187.

She pretended to be a man, and took part in the defense of the wall, wearing improvised armor. Margaret was struck by a fragment thrown up by a stone fired from a siege engine, and carried scars for the rest of her life. She was captured, ransomed, and then after a difficult period involving slavery, theft, and rescue by the grace of the Virgin she was able to arrive in Antioch, in time to participate in the siege there.

After peace was concluded she sailed for England with the English army, departing from Acre. Her other travels, to Rome and Santiago, were almost as adventurous as this first trip. Historically, after her journeys she sought out her younger brother, who had become a monk, and he led her to the contemplative life. She joined a nunnery at Laon, in France, and may live there still in 1220.

#### Inheritance: Eleanor of Aquitaine

Eleanor attended the Second Crusade with her husband, and was attended by a guard of female knights dressed as Amazons and mounted on white horses. Eleanor's right to lead her troops, as overlord of Aquitaine, was incontestable. The queens of several of the other leaders followed her example. Her behavior was considered scandalous, and led to a Papal Bull forbidding women from taking the cross in the Third Crusade.

#### Conquest: Sikelgaita of Sicily

A princess of the Lombards, then the wife of the Duke of Apulia and Sicily, Sikelgaita is recorded as having participated in her husband's battles, dressed as a knight, and as charging enemies with a spear. In her husband's wars against the Byzantine Empire, she is recorded as rallying some troops that had fled a battle, sending them back into the fray at the Battle of Dyrrachium. The Norman conquests in Byzantium were lost after the war turned against her family.

#### Absence: Petronilla of Leicester

Petronilla is recorded as having armed herself as a knight and fought in battles during the reign of Henry II, perhaps due to the absence of her husband. A namesake was active during the wars of John against his barons, and purchased the right to select her own husband. This Petronilla used John's desperation for money to haggle the relatively good price of 4000 marks. The latter Petronilla has only been dead eight years.

#### Political Success: Matilda of Tuscany:

Matilda's parents were allies of the Pope, and open rebels against his rival the Emperor. Matilda was trained in warfare from an early age. Her tutor was later the commander of her forces and stated he had trained her in lance, pike, axe and sword. Matilda is widely believed to have ridden into battle from her teenage years.

She was the primary proponent of the Pope's cause during the Investiture Controversy, and through a series of marriages, alliances and wars, she all but destroyed Imperial authority in Northern Italy. Matilda led her armies through a series of wars, crushing Imperial forces so that only a few cities remained under the Emperor's banner. She spent her old age dispatching armies to besiege and capture many of these.

