## Errors and Anachronisms

Historical errors are inevitable in any historical game. After all, even professional historians make historical errors in their books, which other professional historians then correct. In the game, an anachronism is only a problem if it spoils the illusion that the game takes place in a particular historical period. Thus, introducing guns and wristwatches is bound to be a problem, while getting the cut of men's tunics wrong is only a problem if one of your players is a specialist in medieval costume.

If some of your players do know a lot more about particular aspects of the medieval period than you, you can use them as a resource. Have them explain the details of costume, scholarship, or food, as it becomes relevant to the game. A player who uses his knowledge to break the mood for everyone else is a problem, and you should talk to him about it. If you know more than your players, then they are not likely to be bothered by anything that doesn't bother you.

As you play the game, you might well want to read more about medieval history. This is good, but it can mean that you discover that some aspect of your saga contradicts historical fact. What do you do then? If it isn't a problem for you or your players, you can leave it the way it is. If, on the other hand, the discrepancy does bother you, there are two options. Minor details can simply be changed to be historically accurate. If the King of France has always been Louis in your saga, but you discover that the historical king was Philip, you can simply announce that the king of France is actually called Philip, and always has been.

For things which have played an important role in the saga, that is unlikely to be an option. If the magi have been interacting extensively with the Parliament of England, you can't make it go away when you discover that, historically, it was first called ten years into your saga's future. The best option here, if something bothers you and is too important to change, is to explicitly move your saga to an alternate history. Work out some story as to why Parliament started thirty years earlier, or whatever. Since the player characters have been interacting with the feature extensively it is extremely unlikely that its current state would be historical anyway. It is worth remembering that, historically, there were no magi and no Order of Hermes, so the game is set in an alternate history in the first place.

---

