## Story Types

The power level of a saga makes a large difference to the sorts of stories you can easily run. Hermetic magi are extremely flexible, especially once they have a bit of experience. In most cases (see Saga Speed, on page 527) the power level of a saga will increase over time, and it is best if the style of play changes with it.

For simplicity, this discussion divides stories into three types: reactive, where something happens and the player characters respond; proactive, where the player characters want to do something and go out to make it happen; and soap opera, where the stories arise naturally from the continuing lives of the characters. Obviously, most stories will have elements of all of these types, but the basic distinction is helpful.

### Reactive Stories

Reactive stories are a good way to start a saga, because it gives the players something immediate to do. They also serve to remind the players that their characters are not aware of everything going on in the world before it happens. They work well with young magi, but become harder to create as the magi get older.

This is because, with a reactive story, the magi are only interested in resolving the problem, and thus will use the most efficient means available. In general, they do not care how the problem gets resolved. Thus, elder magi might solve a political campaign against the covenant through the liberal use of Mentem spells. This is unlikely to provide the hours of entertaining political play that the storyguide was after. Investigative stories are quickly short-circuited by Intellego magic, and enemies that a powerful magus cannot simply dispatch are too powerful to be common.

Once the magi are very powerful, it is possible to run reactive stories for just the companions and grogs. Give them a reason not to disturb the magi, and then let them sort the problem out by themselves. It is possible to make the stories very challenging for the mundane characters, because if everything goes horribly wrong the players' other characters can charge in to save the day, which is much more satisfying for the players than having non-player characters do it.

There are several books full of reactive stories in the Ars Magica line. Tales of Mythic Europe contains stories suitable for relatively young magi, while Tales of Power contains stories for older characters. *Hooks* contains a number of short stories designed to introduce new elements, such as noble politics or ancient magic, to the saga, and prime the characters to start on proactive stories. *Thrice-Told Tales* contains stories designed in three parts, which happen several years apart as part of the saga. Finally, *Dies Irae* contains several stories concerning ways in which the world might end, if the characters cannot prevent it.

### Proactive Stories

Proactive stories are good at any power level. For one thing, you know that at least one player is interested in pursuing the story. For another, if the player wants stories to resolve something, that means that his character cannot trivially achieve it. As a magus increases in power, the character's ideas get steadily more grandiose, but always remain challenging. These challenges might arise because the character does not want to resolve the story in the easiest way possible.

As an example, a powerful maga might want to win the friendship of a local monastery, and have it be genuine friendship rather than magically enforced. All at once, the maga's magical power becomes much less important. She can use it to perform spectacularly helpful acts, but she cannot simply use Creo Mentem to make all the monks love her. Alternatively, a magus might want to make the covenant's magical aura into a mobile regio, so that they can travel secretly around Europe. Hermetic magic cannot just do this, no matter how high the magus's Arts are, so he must spend time looking for hidden mysteries and unearthing forgotten secrets. Things that go wrong in his experiments might well require a great deal of power to put right.

In one sense, hooking into these stories is very easy; the players want to do it. In another, it's very difficult, as getting suggestions out of your players can be like getting blood out of a stone. The best thing to do is just keep asking what the players want their characters to do, until they provide answers on which you can hang a story.

Several supplements for **Ars Magica** provide ideas for proactive stories. *Ancient Magic, Legends of Hermes,* and *Mythic Locations* describe things that characters might search for, while *Hermetic Projects* and *Transforming Mythic Europe* describe things that the characters might try to create.

### Soap Opera

Almost any long-running saga develops elements of soap opera, as the characters develop histories with each other. These sorts of story work well at all levels of power, because powerful magi have good reasons not to intervene with brute power when their friends are involved, and even if they do, then the consequences of their actions simply give rise to more soap operatic complications.

'Soap opera' does not mean that the stories are all about the adulteries of covenfolk, although some may be. It can include the ongoing relationship with a whimsical faerie queen, delicate negotiations with a dragon, and repeated battles with a demon who has injured the covenant in the past. Essentially, a soap opera story is one where the characters are constrained by the results of the past and their plans for the future.

Antagonists details a number of characters who would have ambiguous and difficult relations with player characters, and who could play an important part in soap-opera stories.

