## Story Ideas

The first question faced by a new Ars Magica storyguide is 'What do magi do?'. What sort of adventures can you send them on? On the whole, they do not go into cave complexes full of monsters, kill lots of them, and then carry away piles of treasure. On the other hand, they might do that occasionally. This section provides some guidance on stories.

### Exploration

The characters go somewhere they haven't been before, and find out about it. This covers going into caves, killing monsters, and taking their stuff, but it is much broader. It also includes traveling to the local abbey and trying to set up good relations with the abbot, finding a faerie forest and learning how to collect raw vis there, and even visiting other covenants of the Order for the first time.

Exploration stories are a very good way to start a saga, as the characters and players will both want to know more about the area around their covenant. In addition, once they have been introduced to an area you can use that place to generate more stories.

*Mythic Locations* is a whole book full of places for characters to explore.

#### Places to Explore

- **The Covenant.** If the covenant was there before the player characters joined, they may not know everything about it.
- **Mundane Villages.** The villages nearest the covenant will become aware of its existence, so it is a good idea if the magi know a bit about them. Friendly relations would be ideal, of course.
- **Mundane Towns.** The magi are likely to need supplies which have to be bought in a town, so they should explore the local towns. This might be best done by sending the grogs, with maybe a companion.
- **Other Covenants.** Magi are expected to give hospitality to visiting magi, even if they turn up uninvited. Getting to know your neighbors is a good idea, provided you can avoid upsetting them.
- A faerie forest where the intelligent creatures have the shape of animals, and the dumb brutes have the shape of humans.
- A faerie palace where a shining queen grants rewards to those who bring the most beautiful stories. The stories become jewels or fine tapestries when told, and it is possible to learn much from the queen's stored treasures.
- A faerie village which looks a lot like a mundane village, except that the wheat is literally golden and the fruit trees bear gems. Attempting to eat the food is not recommended.
- A set of ancient standing stones which form a magical regio. In higher levels the stones are aware and intelligent, being the forms of ancient spirits.
- An abandoned village, depopulated by an infernal plague and now the home of demons and undead.
- A lake which covers both a magical regio and a faerie regio. If characters enter the magical regio, they find many talking fish, which live in an elaborate society. In the faerie regio they find beautiful people living underwater, in a castle built of shells.
- A covenant that fell under mysterious circumstances, and has lain undisturbed since. (See *Calebais: The Broken Covenant.*)

### Treasure Hunting

Magi are not immune to the lure of treasure hunting, particularly the lure of raw vis. For a covenant, the greatest treasure is a vis source, which reliably provides a certain number of pawns of vis every year. Mundane treasure also has some appeal, but most covenants are rich anyway, and magi with vis can make mundane riches fairly easily. Books are an exception, as useful ones cannot be magically created. Enchanted devices tempt magi almost as much as vis, and in some cases the search for an Arcane Connection to a powerful enemy can motivate an adventure.

You should be careful about handing out vis sources in the early sessions of the saga, as a generous supply of vis can lead to fast advancement on the part of the magi. If an isolated vis treasure is too large, you can just refrain from giving any more for a while, but taking a vis source away is more likely to annoy the players.

Ancient Magic is, in an important way, a whole book of treasures for characters to hunt, although the reward is more likely to be knowledge than a physical item. Legends of Hermes describes important magi from the history of the Order, but involves the player characters by having them hunt the treasures that those magi left behind them.

#### Treasures to Hunt

- The raw vis found in the body of the magical wolf that hunts in the hills north of the covenant.
- The raw vis found in the tears of happiness cried by a particular faerie prince.
- A shield created by the wizard who trained the wizard who trained Bonisagus. The shield is said to defend its wielder from all magic, no matter how powerful, but it also has great historical interest.
- The cauldron owned by a powerful faerie, which is said to have the power to raise the dead.
- A staff created by a powerful Flambeau magus, said to have the power to create a fire large and hot enough to reduce a city to fine ash.
- A flying castle, crafted by a follower of Tytalus decades ago, that simply vanished from Hermetic knowledge. (See *Legends of Hermes*, The Flying Castle of Thomae)
- The library of a hermit magus who used to live somewhere near the covenant.
- A fallen temple of Mercury, still containing details of some of the powerful rituals of the Cult of Mercury. (See *Mythic Locations*, The Fallen Temple of Mercury)
- An Arcane Connection to the dragon that lives in the mountains, so that the magi can use sympathetic magic to overcome its Magic Resistance.

### Requests for Assistance

In many fantasy stories and legends, heroes or oppressed villagers travel to the wizard's tower, looking for assistance. In Ars Magica, the player characters are the ones who get asked for help. You could run an interesting story in which the players take the roles of people seeking help from the covenant, and those characters could join the covenant as grogs after their success, but more normally these stories would involve the magi responding to requests.

One problem with this sort of story is that the magi might not want to help, so it is generally better if the saga creates some reason for them to listen to the request. For example, most magi will listen to a request for help from a noble whom they have been desperately trying to turn into an ally, but are likely to ignore a request from a bunch of smelly peasants they've never heard of. On the other hand, the story might be more concerned with how the covenant responds to the request, rather than with what happens when they have made their decision.

#### Things to Be Asked

- A village is being stalked by a monster which carries off and eats virgins.
- The same village, nine months later, has a lot of strange babies who don't appear entirely human.
- A village is threatened by famine after the river dried up.
- The relics have been stolen from an abbey, and the monks fear that magic or devil worshippers were involved.
- Magi at the covenant made a bargain, almost a century ago, with a powerful monster, so that it would not destroy a city. The period of the bargain is almost up, and the city elders want the current magi to extend it. They have no idea what the details were.
- A nobleman is involved in a dispute with his neighbor, which is heading towards war. He portrays himself as the innocent victim of an unscrupulous robber, and begs the assistance of the magi.
- The other nobleman turns up a week later with a similar story of wronged innocence.

### Crises at Home

Some emergency faces the covenant. The advantage of this sort of story is that the characters will try to solve it. The problem is that the consequences of failure can be serious, so you have to give some thought to what will happen if the characters don't succeed.

In general, the reward for success in such adventures is simply that things do not get any worse. Thus, you should avoid relying on them too heavily; give the players a chance to get positive rewards for their heroism.

#### Potential Crises

- A monster attacks the covenant.
- A magus from another covenant starts a campaign of harassment against the covenant, being careful to avoid blatantly violating the Code. He might attack grogs, or blight crops, but he will not scry on the covenant, nor attack a magus without declaring Wizard's War.
- A bishop hears that the covenant is full of heretics, and sets out, with a small army, to investigate.
- A local lord demands that the covenant swear fealty to him, or face the consequences. Swearing is against the Code, but so is getting into a war with the nobility.
- A powerful faerie decides to use the covenant as part of his latest game.
- The covenant's Magical aura starts to fade.
- The covenant's Magical aura suddenly strengthens, and the magi find themselves sharing space with a group of annoyed, arrogant, and powerful spirits.
- The covenant disappears into a regio, and the magi cannot immediately find the way out. (Or in, for those who were away at the time.)
- The grogs rebel against the tyrannical rule of the magi. The players are likely to be playing both sides of this dispute, which could be tricky, but very effective for experienced players.

### Politics

The Order of Hermes has extensive politics, and the mundane elites of particular areas also have political concerns. Negotiation, trade, and court cases all fall under this general heading. Political adventures tend to involve little combat, and normally cannot be solved by the simple application of magic, which makes them good for more powerful magi. It also makes them a good place for companions to shine, particularly mundane politics, where The Gift is a serious hindrance to the magi.

#### Political Issues

- A Hermetic Tribunal is coming up, and the other covenants are looking for allies. Of course, choosing to work with one makes enemies of another.
- One of the player magi is framed for a serious Hermetic crime.
- One of the player magi is caught in a serious Hermetic crime.
- The covenant tries to build good relations with a local mundane notable, such as a lord, bishop, or abbot.
- A mundane enemy of the covenant tries to take an important piece of land, possibly containing a vis source, off them through legal processes.
- War threatens to break out in the region around the covenant. While the magi could stay neutral and, most likely, survive, it would not be good for the covenant. Can they broker a peace?
- The local bishop begins preaching vigorously against heresy, and priests are instructed to enquire much more closely into people's activities. Many people resent this, but no-one dares to speak out publicly for fear of being branded a heretic.
- The player character magi disagree strongly over the best course of action to take, and spend the entire session arguing about it.

### Quests

Quests shape a series of stories, rather than a single story. They differ from treasure hunting in that the object of the quest is more elevated, and the process of getting there is as important, and significant for the characters, as the discovery itself. In troupe-style play, a quest is best designed to be split up by stories involving other characters, so that people do not feel that one character’s obsession is taking over the saga.

#### Objects of Quests

- The Holy Grail.
- The cave where Bonisagus devised the Parma Magica.
- The lost rituals of the Cult of Mercury.
- The resting place of one of the Old Ones, powerful magical creatures who died, or fell asleep, millennia ago.
- The fields of Elysium.
- The secret of raising the dead through Hermetic magic.
- The character's father.
- True faith in God.

---

