## Background Questions

While products from Atlas Games provide a wealth of detail about the background of **Ars Magica**, there are always areas which are open to interpretation by individual troupes. In many cases these are matters that can simply be ignored when writing books, but in others it is more a question of how you use a book in your sagas. This section looks at a few of the more significant choices you need to consider when deciding how **Ars Magica** works for your troupe.

### History

Perhaps the most obvious question concerns how much history you want to use, and how close to historical events you want to stay. Some troupes like to keep mundane history the same as real history, and have the Order of Hermes acting entirely behind the scenes. Others prefer to have the magi change things, so that political events look very different from our history. Still others prefer to change things around entirely.

This is a slightly different issue from the best way to include history in a game (see Making it Historical, page 495). All the hints there apply no matter what you choose, although, obviously, the more you want to change things, the less you have to worry about anachronisms.

You might want to run a saga which has very little interaction with the mundane world. Mythic Europe, with historical kings and bishops, is there in the background, but most adventures take place in magical auras, faerie forests, or infernal temples. This sort of saga can be very high fantasy without much problem.

At the other extreme, you might want to put the covenant in a major city, such as Paris, Rome, Constantinople, or Jerusalem, and have the player characters deal with the politics and culture of Mythic Europe on a daily basis.

It is even possible to combine the two ideas, although this requires the most work from the storyguide. Many medieval legends are high fantasy, and they can be real in your version of Mythic Europe. You might place the covenant in a version of Constantinople where the city walls really are made of gold and studded with gems, and magical statues and other wizards are a common sight on the streets. This combination is difficult because you need to find medieval legends, and then make medieval society work around them. On the other hand, it is extremely rewarding, and it is possible to do it for one location rather than an entire saga.

The troupe must simply decide whether the magi can change history. The assumption in official books is that the history of Mythic Europe looks, on the surface, like that of medieval Europe until 1220, the canonical starting date. However, many of the reasons behind historical events involve wizards, faeries, and other mystical creatures. The default assumption is that Mythic history will diverge from real history after 1220, as player characters interfere, but that need not be true in your saga.

### The Order of Hermes

The Order of Hermes might seem to be very well defined in the books, but in fact a very important question is left vague, for individual troupes to determine. How organized is the Order in practice? In theory, Tribunals, Quaesitors, Redcaps, and the Peripheral Code tie everything together and enforce a myriad rules. In your saga, that might be the case in practice as well, so that player characters who break the Code face punishment, unless they take careful steps to hide their infractions. Individual covenants might have to register with the Tribunal or be forcibly removed, and all new magi might be recorded in a central register.

At the other extreme, Tribunals might be primarily social events, where the Code is only actually enforced if someone has made enemies of virtually every other magus in the area. Magi a century old might frequently appear and announce that they have been members of the Order for decades, and Redcaps might be supported by individual covenants who need messengers, rather than by the Order.

Both versions of the Order are fun to play, but they produce very different sagas. The more intrusive and organized the Order is, the larger the role that politics plays in the saga. An Order that does not bother to enforce its rules allows the player characters to essentially ignore it and concentrate on adventures. It also allows the player characters to become overtly involved in mundane politics.

> ### Rules Questions
>
> Another set of questions you need to decide is how you will use the rules.
>
> First, the rules in the Laboratory and Long-Term Events chapters are only used when the saga stretches over a significant period of game time. You don't need to worry about them for your first couple of stories.
>
> Beyond that, the game as written can be played and enjoyed, at least according to the playtesters. However, you might want to add House Rules, to make things better fit your playing style.
>
> For example, the core rules pay very little attention to economics. As written, this is a game about mighty wizards in a world of legends, and they don't have to worry about how much their socks cost. However, you might want to play magical merchants criss-crossing Mythic Europe and building trade routes that support marvelous cities. An excellent concept, but you will have to add House Rules for trade, and the effects of trade on cities. (Or, possibly, buy City & Guild.)
>
> There are some changes you might want to make even if you play something very close to the core game. For example, your group might prefer not to have major events happen purely on the roll of the dice. In that case, you can simply ignore stress dice, and always use a simple die. If you do that, a character's skill will always be the main influence on a situation. Of course, you need to make that clear up front, because a number of Virtues and Flaws rely on the stress die.
>
> More fundamental changes are also possible. In 'canon' (the game as defined by the published rules and supplements) mundane humans have virtually no resistance to magic. You might decide to give all Christians, Jews, and Muslims a Magic Resistance equal to five times the level of the local Dominion aura. This will make it almost impossible for magi to affect someone in a town, and drives a stronger separation of the mundane and the supernatural.
>
> Most gamers find that some features of the game don't suit them perfectly. Making up House Rules to fix this is entirely normal, and even to be encouraged, there are some people who like tinkering with rules almost as much as they like playing. In fact, if your group finds that you have the most fun if you spend several hours a week hashing out new rules to make, for example, the book rules exactly match the latest research on medieval study styles and libraries, and never actually play any characters, then go ahead.
>
> At the other extreme, you might find that worrying about game statistics interferes with the flow of your stories, and things work much better when players just say what their magus does. If that works for you, then you can use the spell guidelines as nothing more than inspiration for the sorts of things your magi might do.
>
> The rules and background for **Ars Magica** as written do favor a particular style of play, but if that doesn't match your style, you should change the rules and background so that it does.

### The Church

The Church is an important institution throughout Europe, and it is all but impossible to avoid at least some interaction with it. This means that you must make a decision on how to portray the Church in your saga. Because Christianity is a living religion, and the contemporary Roman Catholic church is institutionally continuous with the Western medieval church on which the Mythic version is based, this is a question you should discuss with your troupe, to avoid offending anyone.

The fundamental choice is between a Church which is basically good with a few bad members, is basically evil, with a few good members. A Church perfectly balanced between good and evil is theoretically possible, but only likely to work in practice if the players encounter the clergy only rarely.

You should also decide on the Church's attitude to magic. Historically, the church in this period condemned magic as nothing but deception and lies, but that is not really a tenable position in Mythic Europe. The Church might believe that magic is the work of the devil, and thus sinful, or that it involves the use of God-given gifts, and thus can be virtuous, if used for good ends. Alternatively, the Church might be in the throes of a debate on this very topic.

The canonical setting does assume that relations between the Church and the Order of Hermes are cool, at best, although there are individuals on both sides with better or worse relationships across the divide. Sagas where the Order tries to overthrow the Church can be exciting, as can sagas where the Order tries to join the Church, or, of course, where the Church simply is not very important to the player characters.

### The Infernal

How many demons do you want in your saga? Demons and diabolists make excellent unambiguous enemies, but the extent to which you use them has a strong effect on the tone of the saga. If there are demons everywhere and a diabolist in every village, then you have a very dark setting where the characters are surrounded by enemies. On the other hand, one diabolist as the main enemy for a saga can be much more hopeful, as things get better once the enemy is defeated.

You should also consider how you want to play demons. Traditionally, they are interested in souls, but also have a penchant for violence and destruction. Emphasizing the violence makes demons into monsters the player characters have to kill, while emphasizing their efforts to corrupt people makes for much more subtle enemies. Subtle enemies are not necessarily a good thing, your players may not want their characters to wrestle with ambiguous moral choices or struggle with temptation.

### The Fate of Magic

A common trope in stories involving a magical past is the decline of magic, so that eventually the magic goes away and leaves us with our contemporary world. The canonical background to **Ars Magica** assumes that, if this is happening, it is so slow that no-one has yet noticed it. Magical auras give way to the Dominion in some places, but in others magic grows stronger.

In your saga, magic could be declining, rising, or steady. Steady magic is the least intrusive on play, as either of the others will have a profound influence on a saga full of magi. It is also the default assumption of sourcebooks; magic was neither stronger nor weaker when the Order was founded, and has not changed noticeably since.

On the other hand, the decline of magic can easily be linked to the advance of the Dominion. As western Europe leaves the Dark Ages and civilization starts to spread once more, remote areas that used to be magical wilderness become incorporated into farmland. By 1220 this might no longer be an occasional nuisance, but rather a serious threat to the Order, as auras vanish and vis sources become scarce.

Magic could also be declining along with all the other supernatural powers, in which case the Dominion would suffer as much as the Order of Hermes. Miracles would become less common, fewer demons would appear, and faeries would retreat fully into stories. Such a background sets up a tragedy for magi, unless they have the chance to reverse the decline.

A third option is to have magic on the rise, again either in opposition to the other supernatural auras or in concert with them. This might work well if you want to start with a saga that is closely tied to mundane historical facts, and increase the level of fantasy later. If only magic increases in power, the player characters might become more powerful than any opposition, but if all the realms increase together the newly-powerful magi will face newly-powerful priests, faeries, and demons, so the challenge remains, just at a greater scale.

> ### Resources
>
> The resources to which the player characters have access also influence the speed of advancement, although that influence is much lower than the speed of the saga. It doesn't matter how many books or how much vis the characters in a slow saga have; they never have time to study them.
>
> Nevertheless, it is important to give some thought to resources.
>
> Vis comes in two ways: vis finds, which don't renew, and vis sources, which do. Early in the saga it is better to hand out vis finds, rather than sources. You can then keep track of how much the player characters use, and decide how much vis you want them to have, before you hand out sources. Vis finds run out naturally, while sources have to be taken away, which might annoy the players.
>
> Vis amounts are highly saga-dependent, and there is no 'right' way to do it. The following numbers are merely a guideline.
>
> **Low Vis:** Up to 5 pawns/magus/year. Studying from vis is very rare, and vis-boosting the Penetration of spells is almost unheard of. Only necessary rituals are cast, and enchanted items are uncommon.
> 
> **Moderate Vis:** Around 10 pawns/magus/year. Studying from vis is common, although books are still preferred. Enchanted items can be made fairly easily; the main concern is getting the right kind of vis, not the amount. Rituals can be cast if they are helpful, and in extreme situations the magi might use vis to boost spell Penetration.
>
> **High vis:** Around 20 pawns/magus/year. Magi can do pretty much anything they want involving vis. This is probably too much vis for most sagas.
>
>Books also come in two sorts, summae and tractatus, and the analogy goes further than that. Because a tractatus can only be studied once by a given character, you can be fairly sure of the effect that it will have. If you want to keep the rate of power advancement down, restrict the number of summae the covenant has, and don't let the covenant build up a large reserve of tractatus noone has studied yet. In addition, when a magus's Arts reach the point of being as high as you are comfortable with, cut off the supply of books. The magus can still invent spells or learn other Arts, and that buys you time to become accustomed to the new level of power.
>
> Don't forget that magi in a covenant can write books for each other. You shouldn't interfere with such activities, but should take them into account.

