## Saga Speed

Advancement in **Ars Magica** happens by seasons of game time (see Advancement, page 375), and so the number of seasons of game time that pass for every game session is an extremely important factor in determining the style of a saga. The ideal saga speed is entirely a matter of troupe preference, but it is important to be aware of the implications in advance. Fortunately it is easy to speed up or slow down a saga if you decide that you have made a mistake.

### Slow Saga

In a slow saga there are, on average, two or more game sessions per season. Characters do not improve much, and the different lifespans of magi and companions are largely irrelevant.

The main advantage of this style of saga is that the style of play does not have to change much. The main disadvantage is that the laboratory rules, which are central to **Ars Magica**, will get little use. In addition, players may become frustrated if their characters do not improve. This style is closest to the conventional style of most roleplaying games, and is a good way to start a saga, as it allows everyone to get used to their characters and establish their personalities before time, perhaps, starts to pass more quickly.

If you intend to play a slow saga, Virtues and Flaws affecting study, lifespan, and other seasonal activities in game are much less significant, while those that affect the character's starting scores are much more significant. There is no need to change the classification of any Virtues or Flaws, unless you want to, but players should be aware of the relative importance of the different types when they are creating their characters.

### Medium Saga

A medium saga has, on average, one to four seasons per game session. Characters do improve, but unless you play very frequently, or over a long period of real time, magi are unlikely to die of old age or pass into Final Twilight.

A medium saga is a good compromise rate, and an excellent way to start, since it is fairly easy to slow down or speed up, as required. Flaws affecting study are of similar significance to those affecting character generation, so players need not pay attention to such subtleties.

In a medium saga it is quite likely that companions and grogs will die of old age, although probably not until the saga is rather advanced. As the characters are likely to have seen extensive play before their deaths, this can create excellent opportunities for roleplaying, and the chance to play the heir of a favored character.

### Fast Saga

In a fast saga, more than one year passes per game session, on average. In a fast saga, magi rapidly become powerful, and a magus who starts the saga fresh from his gauntlet can expect to die of natural causes before the end. Companions may be played only a handful of times before they die of In fast sagas, the emphasis is very much on the magi, particularly once they have become powerful. Virtues and Flaws that affect only a character's starting scores are much less important, and should probably be made reclassified or made more effective if they are to be balanced.

Fast sagas are good for players who want to play epic magi who create magical effects which influence the whole of Europe, but they are not a good way to start a saga. In a fast saga, characters change radically almost before you know it, so a slightly slower start is a good way to get to know them. If some members of the troupe are new to Ars Magica, it would be rather difficult for them to manage five or more seasons of study between every game session.

### Pulsed Saga

A pulsed saga combines the fast and slow sagas. A dozen game sessions might cover a single season, but then twelve game years might pass before the next session.

Pulsed sagas have many advantages. The intense bursts of activity give companions and grogs ample opportunities for play, while the long periods of downtime allow characters to study, and magi can advance to high levels of power.

Most sagas are pulsed to some extent, as it is very unusual to hit exactly the average rate every session. It only really becomes a separate style when the contrast between rates becomes extreme. This also creates the main problem with this speed of saga: it can be difficult to provide an in-game reason for everything becoming quiet for years of game time, after the characters have spent a season involved in one adventure every week. If you do want to play a pulsed saga, it is important for the storyguide to work out how each story arc will finish, and why any loose ends will wait years before needing to be resolved.

