## Troupe-Style Roleplaying

In a typical roleplaying game one person serves as the gamemaster, while the other participants have one character each, whom they play from session to session.

Troupe-style roleplaying breaks away from those assumptions, and this can make it difficult for experienced roleplayers to get into. There are a number of types of troupestyle play, and while they are listed in ascending order of difference from standard roleplaying this is not meant to suggest that the later forms are better than the earlier. If you want to try the full range, it is probably best to work up through the stages, so that people get used to the differing roles of troupe-style games, but you can also pick a single stage that sits well with your group and simply use that.

If **Ars Magica** is your first roleplaying game, you should simply select the style that seems most appealing, and then modify it as necessary so that everyone is having fun.

Although none of the styles of troupe-style play are better for everyone, it is almost always better to use some version of troupe-style play rather than conventional play. This is because, although the game is centered on magi, it is very hard to run a whole saga in which the players play their magi in every session. For one thing, it becomes very difficult to challenge a whole group of fairly experienced magi, as at least one member of the group is likely to be skilled at any form of magic. It can be done, but having to do it every session is likely to strain the storyguide. Another problem is that magi like to spend time in their laboratories, and they might well not want to go out at the same time. After a while, it can come to seem rather artificial if everyone drops everything to go on an adventure.

However, if you play in the conventional fashion and some players have non-magi, different problems arise. First, magi are far more powerful than other characters, and get far more attention in the rules. Someone stuck playing a knight might well find his character aging and dying, possibly of boredom, while the magi study magic and create enchanted devices, and even when he does get to see some action he is likely to be overshadowed by the magi in most adventures.

Even the simplest troupe-style play avoids these problems, as every player has a magus and another character. Thus, you should at least try it out.

### Alternative Characters

In this version of troupe-style play each player has two or more characters, but only plays one of them in a given session. At least one character should be a magus, and at least one should be a companion (see page 25). There is nothing to stop a player having two magi and four companions, if he can cope with only playing each character once every six sessions or so, and with the book-keeping of keeping each character up to date.

If you play this way, it is essential that a player's characters have good reasons not to go on adventures together. They may dislike each other, but this is not essential. Instead, one player's companion could be closely linked to another player's magus, or the two characters could have very different interests.

This style of play is quite close to conventional roleplaying, in that everyone has their own characters, and no-one is handling more than one character at once. As an extra bonus, it makes it easy for players to introduce new characters if they become tired of an old character or don't like the way he is developing in the saga. This style avoids many of the serious problems that the conventional style raises in **Ars Magica**, but it can still lead to rather more magi going on an adventure than is ideal.

### Pooled Characters

Playing with pooled characters means that, in addition to a player's magi and companions, there is also a 'pool' of grogs and bit-parts, who can be played by anyone. Thus, on a typical adventure, one player might play his magus, a second her companion, while the other two take grogs from the common pool.

This has a number of advantages. First, the number of magi in a group tends to be small, which makes them easier to challenge. Second, the covenant staff get to appear on stage, without condemning anyone to playing bit parts all the time. Third, when playing a grog you can cut loose and enjoy yourself. If you overact and ham up your main character, you are likely to end up annoying the other players. On the other hand, a grog who is hammed up can be restricted to small doses, making him entertaining rather than annoying.

More generally, because a grog is not your main character, it is easier to take major risks, or to do things that you know make the character look stupid. The actions of grogs can be some of the most memorable aspects of adventures. It is also possible to run more than one grog at a time, since they can fade into the background while another character takes most of your playing attention.

From the storyguide's perspective, you can kill grogs to emphasize the seriousness of a situation without killing characters into which the players have invested vast amounts of emotional energy. In games with pooled grogs, grogs are supposed to die. They are played enough for the players to care, but they are not so central that a grog death means a major change in the saga. This applies to other major events; grogs get maimed, go mad, or acquire responsibilities that mean they can no longer go on adventures.

In this style of game it is very important for each pooled grog to be looked after by a single player for development between sessions. It is probably best to start with just one grog per player, and create more as people get more used to using the advancement systems. The player managing the grog's downtime activities gets to say what he does in his time off, and as the number of grogs grows some troupes enjoy spending time on the soapoperatic aspects of the relations between the grogs and the magi.

It is important to remember that Ars Magica's advancement system means that characters do not fall behind in power when they are not played, so that players' primary characters do not lose out when the players are running grogs.

Another major advantage of this style of play is that it can easily handle player absences, particularly if the player warns the troupe in advance. As long as the troupe can get that player's main characters home before the session for which the player is absent, there is no problem at all, just fewer people to play grogs. The system can even handle players leaving for years to work overseas; their characters fade into the background, spending all their time in the lab, and then can rejoin the saga when the player gets back, still at the same sort of power level as the characters who have been played.

Of course, the game does still rely on the storyguide being available.

### Guest Storyguiding

The next level of troupe-style playing involves a player occasionally running a session. The normal storyguide can play some of the pooled grogs, and thus remains involved in the game.

This has a major advantage, in that it gives the regular storyguide an occasional break, which can be very good for both creativity and enthusiasm. It also allows someone to have a go at storyguiding without committing to running a whole saga.

There are, however, potential problems. Since the regular storyguide is going to play, the guest storyguide cannot check all the details of the story in advance, so there is a risk of clashing with the regular storyguide's long-term plans.

The best way to avoid such problems is to have the guest storyguides run stories that take place in isolated locations, such as a distant island, or a cave complex. Regiones (page 420) are excellent for this sort of thing, particularly if they can only be entered under rare conditions, so that the characters cannot go back. The guest storyguide should discuss the sorts of rewards and risks that he can include, so as to avoid upsetting the regular storyguide's plans. It is even possible for the guest storyguide to run a story that takes place in a dream, so that it has no long-term effect on the saga at all, but such devices can easily be overused.

### Alpha and Beta Storyguides

The next step is to have more than one member of the troupe acting as storyguide on a regular basis. One storyguide, the alpha storyguide, is responsible for the overall shape of the saga, and has final veto power on story additions, but one or more beta storyguides take responsibility for specific aspects of the saga. A beta storyguide might be responsible for a particular magical regio, or for a local faerie forest, or for the covenant itself, if the characters have joined an old and large institution. As long as the action remains within that location, the beta storyguide has free rein. Some of the participants are still just players, however.

The big advantage of this style is that the alpha storyguide can have a magus and companion, as long as they are designed to go on the sorts of adventures that the beta storyguide runs. In addition, this version of troupe-style play can handle the alpha storyguide's absence as easily as that of any other player, as long as there is some advance notice.

The alpha and beta storyguides should make sure that they are agreed on the sort of reward level that is appropriate, and on the tone of the saga and its individual parts. There is nothing wrong with making a faerie forest into a comedic part of a saga, as long as everyone is agreed in advance, but introducing laser guns and spaceships is likely to cause problems.

This style has the additional advantage that events can sometimes surprise everyone, including all the storyguides, when the different plots interact in unexpected ways. This is an advantage, in the same way as unexpected player actions are good for a conventional game, but it does mean that the storyguides need to be very flexible.

### Pure Troupe Style

In the purest form of troupe style, everyone runs games in roughly equal amounts, and there is no alpha storyguide. This requires quite a bit of coordination, and the troupe must decide on a method for resolving disputes in rule interpretation. One possibility is to have one person as the 'rules storyguide', and have her interpretation be final, but a more democratic method might also work if the group is willing to cooperate.

This style gives everyone an equal chance to run the game and play characters, and can handle any anticipated player absences without any trouble. If one player runs out of storyguiding ideas, she can simply play for a while, until something new occurs to her.

Pure troupe style does, however, require a group of players all of whom are comfortable with rules and with running games. This might prove difficult, especially if the troupe recruits new members from time to time.

