## Researching a Setting

So, you've decided you want to run an **Ars Magica** saga. What now? You need to create the covenant, probably with the co-operation of the players (see page 178), and then you need to put it somewhere. There are a number of options for this, and none is better or worse than the others. You can even switch between them during a saga, either doing more research, or deliberately including more non-historical elements.

### The Pure Fantasy Saga

Research needn't involve books and libraries. You can search on the internet, ask questions on discussion forums, or watch historical documentaries on television. This is, after all, a game, so you should research the things you find interesting, in a way you find enjoyable.

You can set your saga in a pure fantasy world. You might adapt a published one to include the Order of Hermes, or create your own. The advantage is that you don't have to worry about historical facts at all, and can have exactly the setting you want. The disadvantage is that the setting of **Ars Magica** has even influenced the mechanics, so you will find that you have to adapt or ignore a lot of the game material.

### The No-Research Saga

Pick a Tribunal for the covenant (see the map on page 493-494). Pick names for the local nobility, towns, and parish church. Decide what sort of geography you want. Use elements from the Mythic Europe chapter (page 495) to make your stories feel medieval. Have fun, and ignore people telling you that the king of England in 1220 wasn't William the Bastard.

### The Low-Research Saga

Get hold of a modern map of Europe, and pick an area with the sort of terrain you want. Look up twelfth and thirteenth century events in an encyclopedia or general world history, to give you a few names and trends. Most of the cities, towns, and villages in modern Europe were there in the Middle Ages, only smaller, so shrink places. (There are some exceptions, but at this level of research, you don't want to worry about that.) Add more forest. Roads, with the exceptions of freeways/motorways/ autobahn, tend to follow historic routes that sometimes go back to the Romans, so you can use those as described.

From that point, things proceed as for the noresearch saga.

Alternatively, buy one of the Tribunal Books from Atlas Games, and set your saga in that Tribunal. This gives you most of the benefits of the Extreme-Research Saga, with a level of effort more like the Low-Research version.

### The Medium-Research Saga

Pick your area from a modern map, as above. Then find a history of that area, and read the chapters on the twelfth and thirteenth centuries. This will give you quite a few names, a fair bit of social detail, and some idea of which towns were important back then. Work what you've learned into your saga in a way that will impress your players.

### The High-Research Saga

Once you have chosen your area, get hold of a history of that area that focuses on the twelfth of thirteenth centuries. Reading such a book will probably give you more information than you can possibly include in a saga. More recent histories are better for gaming purposes than older ones, because recent historians tend to pay more attention to what life was like, and to events other than battles and the deaths of kings. Give characters names that match the sorts of names you find in the book, so that they 'sound right'. Have the repercussions of events you read about affect the covenant. Foreshadow future history, giving the players a chance to change it. And so on.

### The Extreme-Research Saga

Read several single-volume histories of the area in question, to get a more balanced view. Find, and read, histories of specific aspects, such as the history of a single city, or of the law, or of the Church, or even a single monastery. Track down books written in or about your area during the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, and read them in translation. Learn Latin so that you can read the ones that haven't been translated yet. Learn paleography so that you can read the ones still in manuscript. Go back to university and get a Ph.D. in medieval studies while actually just researching your saga.

Somewhere before the 'learn Latin' stage is the amount of research that most authors do before writing a Tribunal book or similar piece of setting material for the line. For a personal saga, that's a lot of research.

