## Saga Styles

There are a number of different ways of playing **Ars Magica**, all valid, and many compatible with each other. Indeed, almost any combination is possible over the course of a saga, particularly as there is nothing wrong with the style of a saga changing over time. The descriptions here are merely intended to give you some ideas, and help you work out what sort of saga you want to play.

### High Fantasy

The characters spend much of their time dealing with demons, faeries, giants, dragons, and angels. Powerful, flashy mystical effects are extremely common, dealing with mundanes is not. This works particularly well with a low-research saga, as high fantasy elements have to be made up anyway.

### Mundane Interactions

The characters spend a lot of time dealing with local nobles, churchmen, bandits, and traders. They might worry about whether the covenant has enough cattle to provide the vellum for its library, or be concerned with the trend towards violent antisemitism sweeping the country. Magic might be used a lot, but it tends to be low-key and subtle, even if it is powerful.

### Hermetic Life

The characters spend most of their time interacting with other Hermetic magi. They might be dedicated politicians in the local Tribunal, bibliophiles trying to gather the finest library in the Order, or Hoplites dedicated to hunting down any magus who turns to diabolism.

### Action-Adventure

The characters fight and defeat enemies, whether by force of arms or force of magic. They may or may not loot the bodies afterwards.

### Investigation

The characters unravel mysteries, discover murderers, and trace the resting place of lost treasures.

### Politics

The characters negotiate with others to get what they want, or to help their allies get what they want.

### Creation

The characters are trying to build something, whether abstract or concrete. They might be trying to create the strongest, most vibrant covenant in the Order, or a giant flying ship, or bring justice and peace to a war-torn area of Europe.

