## Saga Priorities

The highest priority for any saga is to ensure that all the players are having fun. This is much easier if you have good communication between the players, and people are not afraid to talk about what they do and don't enjoy in the game.

If one player finds certain story elements upsetting or offensive, then you shouldn't include them. If another player finds the absence of the same elements upsetting or offensive, then you have a real problem within the group that you will need to talk about. The historical setting of Ars Magica makes this sort of conflict more likely than it might be in other games. For example, a Christian player might find plot lines that portray the Church as corrupt offensive, but a pagan player might find plot lines that portray the Church as virtuous equally offensive. The only way to resolve such problems is to talk about them, and the resolution might be a decision that Ars Magica is the wrong game for your group.

On a less serious level, different people enjoy different styles of story. The covenant and troupestyle play mean that Ars Magica is well-adapted to covering many styles of story in a single saga, and so this sort of problem can generally be solved within the game. Players should be allowed to adapt their characters, or introduce new ones, if they find that their existing characters do not fit well with the sorts of story they enjoy. On the other hand, if the main storyguide does not enjoy running the kinds of story that certain players want, that might be a good opportunity to try out guest storyguiding. Communication and tolerance are also important for resolving this issue, as players may have to put up with some stories that are not really their thing, so that everyone can have fun.

Finally, "game balance" in Ars Magica is nothing more than a tool for making sure that all the players have fun, by making it hard for one player's character to monopolise the spotlight. Magi are not balanced against companions, but the idea is that everyone will take turns playing their magi and companions, and so the spotlight will move around. This means that you do not need to worry too much about game balance when modifying the rules to suit your play style. As long as the changes help everyone to have fun, they are good.

Roleplaying games are a way to explore other worlds, other perspectives, and other possibilities. But they are, or at least **Ars Magica** is, first and foremost entertainment.

Enjoy yourselves.

> *Quid rides? Mutato nomine, de te fabula narrant.*
>
> –Horace, *Satires*

---

